L'intérieur de deux langues qui se touchent à se rouler des pelles, c'est immonde.
The inside of two tongues that touch on rolling their shovels is disgusting.
Tu vas à la selle, et bah ta matière fécale en général, elle est parfaite.
You go to the saddle, and, well, your faecal matter in general, it's perfect.
Elle qui fout son orgasme, puis elle chiale, puis elle se barre.
She's making her orgasm, then she's crying, then she's leaving.
Quand ta peau ça devient du parquet, c'est le signe qu'il faut partir.
When your skin becomes parquet, that's the sign you have to leave.
Ah la meuf derrière la buick, là tu l'as mis enceinte, bah c'est ta femme maintenant.
Ah, the chick behind the buick, there you got her pregnant, well she's your wife now.
C'est compliqué entre le pavarotinant et le radiateur qui s'est pris pour la foire du trône.
It's complicated between the pavarotinant and the radiator who thought he was the throne fair.
Oui parce que là le cul on l'a pas trouvé.
Yeah, because that's the ass we didn't find.
C'est comme un mini embryon mais en forme de croissant.
It's like a mini embryo but in the shape of a crescent.
En vrai, la seule meuf qu'il a croisé et avec qui il a coût eu moyen, c'était la vieille morte.
In fact, the only girl he saw and with whom he had the average cost was the old dead girl.
T'as connu un âge d'or de ton corps aussi ?
Did you have a golden age of your body, too?
Je suis encore dedans, hein ?
I'm still in there, right?
Non.
No.
Si je te jure.
I swear.
Moi.
Me.
Oh, je te jure.
Oh, I swear.
Bah c'est vrai que vu que t'as été gros, petit, oui t'es encore un peu dans l'âge d'or.
Well, it's true that since you were fat, kid, yes, you're still a little in the golden age.
Ah non je suis bien là.
Oh, no, I'm here.
Très bien, bah écoute ça, je sais pas pourquoi on check, ça enregistre.
All right, listen to this, I don't know why we check, it records.
Il y a une différence entre l'âge d'or de ton corps et l'âge d'or de ta santé.
There's a difference between the golden age of your body and the golden age of your health.
Ah oui, c'est vrai.
Oh, right.
Bah on sait pas quand c'est l'âge d'or de sa santé en fait.
Well, we don't know when it's the golden age of his health, actually.
Bah toi c'était avant, ça c'est sûr.
Well, that was before, that's for sure.
Non, après t'es l'ennie Kravitz.
No, then you're Kravitz.
Si t'es l'ennie Kravitz, t'as 60 ans, t'es gaulé comme un mec de 20.
If you're Kravitz, you're 60, you're gaule like a 20-year-old.
Ouais.
Yeah.
C'est bon.
It's okay.
Mais tu dois porter des lunettes tout le temps, sinon t'es moche, un peu comme Maître
But you have to wear glasses all the time, otherwise you're ugly, a little like Master.
Games.
Je pense que c'est plus un délire parce que c'est un Dewalker, un vampire spécifique.
I think it's more of a delusion because it's a Dewalker, a specific vampire.
Où il est tellement beau en vrai que c'est le seul gars qui met des lunettes juste parce
Where he's so beautiful in real life that he's the only guy who wears glasses just because
que sinon il se fait harceler par les meufs.
that he gets harassed by the chicks.
Il s'est obligé de se mochiser.
He had to move.
Je pense qu'avec ou sans lunettes, le Nick Kravitz, il doit un peu, souvent il doit
I think with or without glasses, the Nick Kravitz, he has a little, often he has to
entendre Tidum.
Listen to Tidum.
Vraiment beaucoup.
Really a lot.
Tu crois qu'il y a des mecs qui sont tellement beaux qu'ils doivent se mochiser un petit
You think there are guys who are so beautiful that they have to moch a little
peu, sinon ça devient chiant leur vie.
Little, or it gets boring their lives.
Comme les meufs qui mettent des jogging et tout.
Like the chicks who put on jogging and everything.
Non mais ouais, ils se planquent.
No, but yeah, they're hiding.
Après elles disent toujours, putain les mecs c'est vraiment des porcs, j'étais en
After they always say, fucking guys are really pigs, I was in
mode dégueu, ils m'ont quand même harcelé.
Gross fashion, they still harassed me.
Et oui, c'est des porcs.
And yes, they're pigs.
Ce qu'on dit c'est la jupe et tout.
What they say is skirt and everything.
Non, c'est les phéromones.
No, it's pheromones.
Les hommes c'est pas la jupe, c'est les vrais de vrais harceleurs de merde.
Men aren't skirts, they're real fucking stalkers.
Rien ne les arrête.
Nothing stops them.
Non, non.
No, no.
En fait, je pense que la plupart, ils ont une sorte de radar à vagin.
Actually, I think most of them have some sort of vagina radar.
Et ils savent si t'as un vagin ou pas.
And they know if you have a vagina or not.
Même pas à vagin.
Not even to vagina.
Et si t'as un vagin, c'est trop tard.
And if you have a vagina, it's too late.
Même pas à vagin.
Not even to vagina.
Marina, elle avait une blague où sur Tinder, elle avait mis une tête recouverte avec
Marina, she had a joke where on Tinder, she put a covered head with
la moitié d'une main et elle avait plein de trucs lesquels étaient là.
Half a hand and she had a lot of stuff that was there.
Une demi-tête, une main.
Half a head, one hand.
Très bien.
All right.
Et ouais, mais il y a des cheveux.
And yeah, but there's hair.
Ça c'est pas des cheveux d'hommes ça.
That's not men's hair.
Ah ouais, ouais.
Yeah, yeah.
Nous on est mal concernés pour en parler mais...
We're wrong about this, but...
On donne des cheveux d'ailleurs si ça intéresse des gens.
We give hair if it interests people.
S'il y a des...
If there are any...
Ouais.
Yeah.
Ah putain c'est con, moi je me suis coupé les pointes il y a quoi ?
What the fuck is wrong with me?
Il y a trois semaines ?
Three weeks ago?
Ah merde.
Damn it.
Je les ai pas mises de côté.
I didn't put them away.
Non, mais s'il y a la meuf de Will Smith ou il y a des meufs dans le délire.
No, but if there's Will Smith's chick or there's some chicks in the delirium.
Ou des chauves.
Or bald ones.
Ou des chauves, ouais.
Or bald ones, yeah.
Ouais, des chauves.
Yeah, bald people.
Mais si des chauves veulent des cheveux...
But if bald men want hair...
Bah ouais, nous quand on se coiffe tout ça, il reste toujours un peu de cheveux.
Well, yeah, us when we do all this hair, there's always a little hair left.
Si vous en voulez.
If you want some.
Ah ouais.
Yeah.
Ouais, ouais.
Yeah, yeah.
Je peux pas vous donner de la bite alors par contre, pour des raisons personnelles.
I can't give you dicks then, for personal reasons.
T'as pas de bite ?
Don't you have a dick?
Si, mais pas à revendre, pas à donner quoi.
Yes, but not to sell, not to give what.
Ah, t'as juste ce qu'il faut en bite.
Ah, you just got the dick.
Ouais, et encore.
Yeah, and again.
Et encore.
And again.
Si vous êtes prêts à faire des troc-cheveux comme bite, j'ai aucun souci.
If you're ready to make barter hair like a dick, I have no problem.
Ah ouais, ok.
Oh yeah, okay.
Je peux vous donner un peu de graisse aussi.
I can give you some fat too.
T'en as ça ?
You got that?
Ouais.
Yeah.
Ouais, ouais.
Yeah, yeah.
Et le mieux, ce serait un chauve musclé qui aurait besoin d'un peu de gras.
And best of all, it would be a muscular bald that would need some fat.
Il faudrait un chauve musclé avec une grosse bite et on pourrait faire des trocs exceptionnels.
We'd need a muscular bald with a big dick and we could do some exceptional bartering.
Mais tu peux trade ?
But can you trade?
Ça vaut ?
Is it worth it?
Bah, je pense, ouais.
Well, I think so, yeah.
Non mais est-ce que du gras des cheveux, ça vaut des pecs ?
No, but is that hair fat worth pecs?
Mais si le gars en a besoin.
But if the guy needs it.
Si le gars en a besoin.
If the guy needs it.
Si c'est un gars qui a besoin d'un peu de gras parce que genre en fait, il est en malnutrition.
If it's a guy who needs a little fat because, like, he's actually in malnutrition.
Ok.
Okay.
Donc je lui donne un peu de gras.
So I give him some fat.
Ah, lui, bon, il ne peut pas me donner des muscles, mais il a des cheveux.
Ah, well, he can't give me muscles, but he has hair.
Il a des cheveux.
He's got hair.
Bon, voilà.
All right, here we go.
Non, toi, toi, tu lui donnes des cheveux.
No, you give her hair.
Si ça se trouve, il a une tub énorme.
If it happens, he has a huge tub.
Même si c'est comme la théorie des meufs très très bonnes qui sont pauvres, j'y crois pas.
Even if it's like the theory of very good chicks who are poor, I don't believe it.
Et je crois pas que...
And I don't think...
Je pense pas qu'il y ait de clochards avec des tub énormes.
I don't think there's any tramps with huge tubs.
Je pense qu'ils auraient réussi à s'en sortir.
I think they could've managed.
Ah, tu penses qu'une tub énorme, ça peut t'aider à réussir dans la vie ?
Ah, you think a huge tub can help you succeed in life?
Bah, j'en suis certain, ouais.
Well, I'm sure, yeah.
Ah ouais, t'en es certain ?
Oh yeah, you sure?
Oui, je suis certain.
Yeah, I'm sure.
Tu parles par rapport à John Holmes, tout ça ?
Are you talking about John Holmes?
Par rapport au fait que c'est bon.
Compared to the fact that it's good.
Ça te donne une confiance, cette troisième jambe, qui fait qu'à mon avis, tu peux pas être trop...
It gives you a confidence, that third leg, which makes me think you can't be too...
Ou alors t'es le clochard le plus heureux du monde.
Or you're the happiest tramp in the world.
C'est-à-dire que t'es triste, c'est galère.
I mean, you're sad, it's a mess.
SDF avec une grosse tub, c'est pas ouf.
homeless with a big tub, it's not crazy.
Mais ouais, mais t'es toujours là, t'as toujours ta grosse tub.
But yeah, but you're still here, you still have your big tub.
Par rapport aux autres gars de la rue, t'es là, j'ai ma 8-6, il fait froid, mais moi...
Compared to the other guys on the street, you're here, I have my 8-6, it's cold, but I...
Surtout, si t'es craquette, tu te balades toujours plus ou moins à poil.
Especially if you're cracked, you're always walking around more or less naked.
Donc les gens le savent très rapidement.
So people know it very quickly.
Mais en vrai, je pense pas.
But actually, I don't think so.
Après, peut-être que si vous êtes vraiment dans la deux mers,
Then, maybe if you're really in the two seas,
et que vous avez une tub de 25 cm, je veux bien...
And that you have a 25 cm tub, I'd like to...
Franchement, si t'as une...
Frankly, if you have a...
Il me faudra preuve, photo de la tub, livrée de RSA.
I'll need proof, picture of the tub, delivered from RSA.
Avec le journal du jour à côté, tout ça ?
With the newspaper next door?
Ouais, non, même l'avis de RSA.
Yeah, no, even RSA's opinion.
Mais déjà, pour moi, si t'as une tub de 25 cm, t'es dans la merde.
But already, for me, if you have a 25-inch tub, you're in shit.
C'est vraiment...
It's really...
Mais...
But...
Oui.
Yes.
C'est chiant.
It's boring.
Parce que c'est chiant, mais l'homme est fait de telle façon
Because it's boring, but man is made in such a way
que même s'il peut pas ken, il est quand même content parce qu'il a une tub énorme.
Even though he can't ken, he's still happy because he has a huge tub.
Parce qu'il a une tub énorme, tu penses ?
Because he has a huge tub, you think?
Ouais, le but, c'est de faire peur avec sa tub.
Yeah, the point is to scare her tub.
Comme Godzilla, tu vois.
Like Godzilla, you know.
Godzilla, une grosse tub ?
Godzilla, a big tub?
Non, pas sûrement.
No, not probably.
Oui, enfin non, proportionnellement, ça veut rien dire.
Yeah, well, no, proportionally, that means nothing.
Proportionnellement, ça se trouve...
Proportionally, it turns out...
Ça se trouve, il a un micro pénis, ça.
He's got a micro penis.
Ça se trouve, les autres kaijus le regardent en mode, mais attends...
It happens, the other kaijus look at him in mode, but wait...
Guy Dora, il est là.
Guy Dora, he's here.
C'est ça que t'appelles une tub, Eb ?
Is that what you call a tub, Eb?
Ouais, mais par rapport à un humain, c'est énorme.
Yeah, but compared to a human, it's huge.
Il dirait...
He'd say...
Oh, ça va.
Oh, it's okay.
C'est bon.
It's okay.
Bon, ben voilà.
All right, here we go.
C'est une bonne intro, dis donc.
It's a good intro.
On repart bien dans le bon sens.
We're going back in the right direction.
On a dit les termes.
We said the terms.
On va faire...
We'll do...
Et c'est pas plus mal, quelque part.
And it's no worse somewhere.
Bon, déjà, désolé, on n'était pas là pendant longtemps.
Well, already, sorry, we weren't there for a long time.
C'est un peu à cause de moi, beaucoup à cause de toi.
It's a little because of me, a lot because of you.
Il y a eu emploi du temps.
There was a schedule.
Après, il y a eu Japon.
Then there was Japan.
Après, avant, il y a eu maladie.
Then, before, there was illness.
Maladie qui, finalement, c'est bien fini.
Sickness, which is finally over.
Ouais, je suis pas mort, mais je tousse encore après, un mois et demi après.
Yeah, I'm not dead, but I'm still coughing after a month and a half.
Tu tousses encore ?
Are you coughing again?
Ouais.
Yeah.
Putain, mais mec !
Fuck, man!
La...
The...
Mais comment t'as échappé au Covid, toi, avec ta condition physique ?
But how did you escape the Covid with your physical condition?
Ben, je sais pas, mais j'ai déjà eu quatre fois le Covid.
Well, I don't know, but I've already had the Covid four times.
Mais c'était pas le Covid.
But it wasn't the Covid.
C'était pas le Covid ?
Wasn't that the Covid?
Non, non.
No, no.
C'est une bronchite.
It's bronchitis.
Tu serais mort.
You'd be dead.
C'est une bronchite asthmatiforme.
It's asthmatiform bronchitis.
C'était assez horrible.
It was pretty horrible.
Ouais, ouais.
Yeah, yeah.
J'ai passé de très mauvais moments.
I had very bad times.
Mais voilà.
There you go.
Et puis après, il y a eu le Japon.
And then there was Japan.
Et puis après...
And then...
Putain.
Fuck.
Puis c'est toi qui as annulé la dernière.
Then you canceled the last one.
La dernière, c'est moi.
The last one is me.
Je sais même plus pourquoi.
I don't even know why.
Et la première aussi.
And the first one too.
Non, la dernière, c'est moi parce que je voulais revoir le film.
No, the last one is me because I wanted to see the movie again.
Et effectivement, j'ai pas pu.
And actually, I couldn't.
Et la première, c'est moi.
And the first one is me.
Pourquoi ?
Why?
Voilà.
There.
Mais je sais plus parce qu'il y avait déjà eu un post-nome.
But I don't know anymore because there's been a post-name before.
Non, non, non.
No, no, no.
C'est deux tiers en tiers.
It's two thirds in thirds.
J'accepte deux tiers en tiers.
I accept two thirds in thirds.
Et alors, vraiment, Dedo, t'es vraiment un gland.
And so, really, Dedo, you really are a dick.
Parce que la veille, tu trouves pas le film en ripé.
Because the day before, you can't find the movie ripping.
Il se trouve que tu l'as pas.
Turns out you don't have it.
C'est déjà pourquoi.
That's why.
Et après...
And then...
J'ai tous les lignes, sauf celui-là.
I have all the lines except this one.
T'as pas pensé qu'on pouvait louer les films ?
Didn't you think we could rent the movies?
Mais pour de vrai, non.
But for real, no.
C'est ça qui est fou, quoi.
That's what's crazy.
J'étais là.
I was there.
Putain.
Fuck.
Bon, bah, il va falloir que j'aille l'acheter.
Okay, well, I'm gonna have to go buy it.
Alors, avant de ça, tu pouvais aussi télécharger le film comme un gars normal.
So, before that, you could also download the movie like a normal guy.
J'ai plus...
I haven't...
Je touche plus à un ordi depuis longtemps.
I haven't had a computer for a long time.
Je bosse que sur mon iPhone.
I only work on my iPhone.
OK.
Okay.
Ah, mais du coup, si t'as pas d'ordi, tu pouvais pas le louer, le film facile ?
Ah, but so, if you don't have a computer, you couldn't rent the easy movie?
Si, sur ma télé.
Yes, on my TV.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Je pouvais mille fois.
I could do a thousand times.
Mais vraiment, quand tu me l'as dit, j'ai vraiment eu un réflexe de quelqu'un qui sort du coma, quoi.
But really, when you told me, I really had a reflex of someone coming out of a coma.
J'étais là.
I was there.
Ah ouais, c'est vrai, ça.
Oh yeah, that's right.
On peut faire ça.
We can do that.
Ça t'aurait coûté trois balles, quoi.
That would cost you three bullets.
Non, moi, j'étais là.
No, I was there.
Bah, j'y vais demain, quoi.
Well, I'm going tomorrow.
Je vais aller me l'acheter à la FNAC.
I'm gonna go buy it from FNAC.
C'est ce que j'ai fait.
That's what I did.
Bah, je les avais tous, sauf celui-là.
Well, I had them all, except this one.
J'ai les neuf lynch et j'étais là.
I got the nine lynches and I was there.
Mais je l'ai pas à Razorade.
But I don't have it in Razorade.
Pourquoi je l'ai pas ?
Why don't I have it?
Donc, il y a Dedo, la veille du podcast, qui dit putain.
So, there's Dedo, the day before the podcast, who's fucking saying.
Et il m'écrit, en plus, à trois heures du matin.
And he writes to me, besides, at three o'clock in the morning.
Moi, je vois ça le lendemain.
I see that the next day.
Gros, j'ai pas le film.
Big, I don't have the movie.
Ça marche pas sur Internet.
It doesn't work on the Internet.
Mais j'étais là.
But I was there.
Mais d'accord.
All right.
Bon, après, je te l'ai envoyé par mail.
Well, then I sent it to you by e-mail.
C'est vrai.
That's right.
Parce que je l'avais téléchargé, moi.
Because I downloaded it.
Tu l'avais téléchargé ?
You downloaded it?
Mais non, mais je me suis acheté.
No, but I bought myself.
OK.
Okay.
Mais je suis trop un dinosaure, moi.
But I'm too much of a dinosaur.
OK, bah...
Okay, well...
Avec une bite normale.
With a normal dick.
Proportionnelle.
Proportional.
Bite normale de dinosaure ou bite normale de...
Normal dinosaur bite or normal...
T'as une bite de dinosaure sur un humain ?
Do you have a dinosaur dick on a human?
Non, non, non, non.
No, no, no, no.
Bite normale d'humain sur un humain.
Human normal bite on a human.
Ah, OK.
Ah, okay.
OK.
Okay.
Bite d'humain sur dinosaure, c'est trop triste.
Human Bite on dinosaur, it's too sad.
C'est vraiment...
It's really...
C'est un drame, quoi.
It's a tragedy.
C'est un film, c'est un biopic hyper dur.
It's a movie, it's a very hard biopic.
Tu connais la blague de Norm MacDonald sur les bites de cheval ?
You know Norm MacDonald's prank about horse dicks?
Non.
No.
Il dit les chevaux, ils doivent être quand même vraiment fiers d'être le métrique pour les humains qui ont de grosses bites.
He says horses, they must still be really proud to be the metric for humans who have big dicks.
Et il dit personne n'a une bite.
And he says nobody has a dick.
Personne dit...
Nobody says...
Oh, il a une bite de girafe.
Oh, he's got a giraffe dick.
À moins qu'elle soit jaune et qu'elle ait des taches marrons dessus.
Unless it's yellow and has brown spots on it.
Auquel cas...
In which case...
Who cares ?
Who cares?
He's gonna die soon anyway.
Ah, il était marrant avant son cancer.
Ah, he was fun before his cancer.
Ah, quel con.
Ah, what an asshole.
Et je trouve que c'est le trouble des bêtes, ces blagues.
And I think it's beast trouble, these jokes.
Les chevaux qui font...
The horses that make...
C'est nouveau.
It's new.
Très marrant, Norm MacDonald.
Very funny, Norm MacDonald.
Voilà.
There.
Donc, bon, tout ça pour dire que...
So, well, all this to say that...
Donc, oui.
So, yes.
À cause des retards, on devait faire ça juste après la mort de Lynch.
Because of the delays, we had to do this right after Lynch died.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Mais c'est pas plus mal parce qu'au final, qu'est-ce qui se passe quand un gars est mort ?
But it's not bad because in the end, what happens when a guy dies?
Pendant trois jours, on en parle beaucoup, on regarde ses films, puis il tombe de l'oubli.
For three days, we talk about it a lot, we watch his films, then he falls from oblivion.
Faire l'hommage deux mois après, c'est pas mal.
To pay tribute two months later is not bad.
On remet dans la tête des gens.
We're getting back in people's heads.
C'est vrai.
That's right.
Au fait, il est mort.
By the way, he's dead.
Ne l'oubliez toujours pas.
Don't forget it.
Moi, j'ai réussi à m'en sortir parce que ça m'a vraiment...
I managed to make it because it really...
On en avait parlé.
We talked about it.
Moi, ça m'a vraiment affecté.
It really affected me.
C'est certainement pas loin d'être mon...
It's certainly not far from being my...
D'avoir été mon réel préféré, en tout cas.
For being my favorite real thing, anyway.
Ouais, mais je comprends.
Yeah, but I get it.
Juste avant, j'avais eu Blié.
Just before, I had Blié.
Moi, ça m'avait tué.
It killed me.
Ah ouais, Blié derrière en plus.
Oh yeah, Blied in the back.
Qui a pris des casse-rôles derrière, mon avis.
Who took some trouble behind it, I think.
Ah bon ?
Right?
Faut que je te dise.
I have to tell you.
C'est pas vrai, faut vérifier.
Oh, my God, we have to check.
Des meufs ?
Girls?
Ouais.
Yeah.
C'est-à-dire ?
What do you mean?
C'est-à-dire...
That is...
Bah, Hanouk, elle a balancé des trucs.
Well, Hanuk, she threw things away.
Ah ouais, mais il a été avec elle hyper longtemps.
Yeah, but he was with her for a long time.
Ah oui, oui, oui.
Oh, yes, yes, yes.
C'est ça qui fait qu'elle a balancé plein de trucs hyper longtemps.
That's why she threw away a lot of stuff for a long time.
Ah non.
Oh, no.
Ouais, ouais, ouais.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Bon, à Lynch, on aura aussi.
Well, in Lynch, we'll have too.
Non.
No.
Mais si.
I do.
Lynch, c'est Kenny Reeves.
Lynch, it's Kenny Reeves.
C'est le même niveau.
It's the same level.
En fait, s'il y en a un des deux qui tombe, pour de vrai, l'humanité, j'arrête.
In fact, if there is one of the two that falls, for real, humanity, I stop.
Je deviens une plante.
I'm becoming a plant.
Lynch, il y a mille fois plus de chances.
Lynch, there's a thousand times more chances.
Il y a zéro chance, vraiment.
There's no chance, really.
Lynch, une fois, j'ai vu un reportage sur lui.
Lynch, once I saw a story about him.
Mec, zéro chance.
Man, zero luck.
Il sortait d'une cave.
He was coming out of a cellar.
Oui, bien sûr.
Yes, of course.
En train de peindre, là.
Painting.
Et après, il y a deux meufs hyper jeunes qui sortent à poil.
And then there's two super-young chicks coming out naked.
Oui, oui.
Yes, yes.
C'était pour une performance.
It was for a performance.
Elle a été filmée.
She was filmed.
C'est une performance artistique.
It's an artistic performance.
Il n'a jamais touché une meuf.
He never touched a girl.
Tous ses acteurs et ses actrices disent, c'est vraiment...
All her actors and actresses say, it's really...
À Hollywood, ça n'existe pas.
Hollywood doesn't exist.
On n'a jamais vu quelqu'un d'aussi sain, d'aussi sympathique, d'aussi gentil et qui
We've never seen anyone so healthy, so friendly, so kind and kind.
est un véritable artiste jusqu'au bout des ongles.
is a true artist to the end of the nails.
Bon, on espère.
Well, we hope.
On touche du bois.
We're touching wood.
Donc, ça m'avait un peu foutu en l'air.
So, it got me a little screwed up.
Je pense que j'aurais été un peu trop affecté pour en parler.
I think I'd have been a little too affected to talk about it.
Là, j'ai un peu digéré.
There, I digested a little.
Mais j'ai réussi, entre temps, à me lynchiser mes réseaux sociaux.
But I managed, in the meantime, to lynch my social networks.
C'est-à-dire, quand tu like des trucs sur lynch, après, dans ta TL, il n'y a plus
That is, when you like things on lynch, then in your TL, there's no more
que du lynch.
Only lynch.
Oui, oui.
Yes, yes.
Et du coup, pendant un mois, j'étais là.
And so, for a month, I was there.
Bon, voilà, je suis bien.
All right, well, I'm good.
J'ai revu tout Twin Peaks.
I've seen everything Twin Peaks.
C'est le truc des algorithmes.
That's the algorithm thing.
Au moins, tu peux le...
At least you can...
Alors, pourquoi toi, dans tes algos, il n'y a que des chaussures gauches ?
So why are you in your algos all left shoes?
Ah, mais déjà, parce que les chaussures droites, c'est vraiment de la merde.
Ah, but already, because straight shoes are really shit.
Voilà, on arrive, mais...
Here we go, but...
Bon, écoute, on n'est pas obligé d'en parler maintenant.
Okay, look, we don't have to talk about it now.
Oui, oui.
Yes, yes.
Non, non, j'ai fait une vidéo il n'y a pas longtemps pour dire que chaque algorithme
No, no, I made a video not long ago to say that every algorithm
est un chef-d'œuvre personnel qu'on ne peut montrer à personne.
is a personal masterpiece that can't be shown to anyone.
Parce que, voilà.
Because there you go.
Mais c'est vrai que petite...
But it's true that little...
En fait, j'avais eu cette réflexion.
Actually, I had this thought.
En un moment, je me disais...
In a moment, I was thinking...
Des fois, tu dis, tu perds ton temps et tout.
Sometimes you say, you're wasting your time and everything.
Mais moi, je me souviens de...
But I remember...
Justement, j'étais au Japon, deux heures du mat.
I was in Japan, two hours a day.
Et genre, chaque nouveau scroll sur Insta.
And like, every new scroll on Insta.
Mais la vidéo, elle était mortelle.
But the video was deadly.
À chaque...
Every...
Chaque fois, tu disais, mais c'est pour moi, ça.
Every time, you said, but this is for me.
Non, c'est ça.
No, that's it.
J'ai dû rire pendant une heure en disant...
I had to laugh for an hour saying...
Et après, je me suis dit, mais en fait, c'est moi.
And then I thought, but actually, it's me.
C'est ma construction.
It's my construction.
Trois ans d'architecte à dire ça, j'aime bien, ça, j'aime pas, ça, c'est raciste, ça, voilà.
Three years of architect to say that, I like it, that, I don't like it, that, that's racist, that's it.
Et au bout d'un moment, il y a eu un moment de fusion où l'algorithme n'envoyait que des bangers.
And after a while, there was a moment of fusion where the algorithm only sent bangers.
Mais est-ce que, du coup, c'est pas problématique dans le sens où tu ne restes que ton entre-soi ?
But isn't that a problem in the sense that you're just staying with each other?
Mais c'est pas grave parce que...
But it doesn't matter because...
Tu t'ouvras rien d'autre.
You didn't open anything else.
Si ça se trouve, il y a d'autres trucs mortels où tu te dirais, mais ça, c'est plus marrant que tout ce que j'ai vu.
If it happens, there are other deadly things you'd think about, but this is more fun than everything I've seen.
Tu sauras jamais.
You'll never know.
Mais non, mais justement, c'est souvent ça.
But no, but that's what it's all about.
C'est genre, tous les jours, je découvrais des nouveaux trucs.
It's like, every day, I found new stuff.
C'était pas des trucs que je connaissais déjà.
It wasn't stuff I already knew.
C'est juste que je m'étais là.
It's just that I was there.
Et tous les jours, je découvre des nouveaux comptes, justement, des nouveaux cas.
And every day, I discover new accounts, precisely, new cases.
Mais c'est avant que je scrollais sur ta TL.
But that's before I scrolled on your TL.
Discours de Goebbels, discours d'Himmler.
Goebbels' speech, Himmler's speech.
Vraiment des trucs où j'étais là.
Really stuff I was there.
Mais d'où elles sortent, ces images d'archives ?
But where did they come from, those archive images?
C'est fou.
This is crazy.
On les avait pas.
We didn't have them.
Bah ouais.
Yeah.
Non, non.
No, no.
Justement, je fais bien des fois.
That's what I do many times.
Moi, j'ai des potes bizarres qui m'envoient des trucs trop.
I have weird friends who send me stuff too much.
Et je fais bien exprès de pas les voir ou de pas les liker.
And I'm doing it on purpose not to see them or not to like them.
Comme ça, je tombe pas dans le...
That way, I don't fall into the...
Ah ouais.
Yeah.
Ouais, mais il faut pas les voir, du coup.
Yeah, but you can't see them.
Une fois, ça va.
Once, it's okay.
En fait, il faut juste montrer que tu le regardes une fois, on te l'a envoyé.
Actually, we just have to show you look at him once, we sent him to you.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Mais après, dès qu'on te repropose, non, j'ai rien à foutre.
But then, as soon as you're asked again, no, I don't give a shit.
Non, ça m'intéresse pas.
No, I'm not interested.
Et au bout d'un moment, tu construis.
And after a while, you build.
Et voilà.
There you go.
Bravo chacun à votre petit chef-d'oeuvre.
Congratulations each to your little masterpiece.
Personne.
No one.
Après, c'est peut-être de la merde, votre truc.
Then maybe your thing is shit.
Mais moi, le mien, il est super.
But I, mine, it's great.
Bien que je puisse le montrer à personne, franchement, il est...
Although I can show it to no one, frankly, he's...
Bon, tout ça pour dire.
Well, all that to say.
Donc, David Lynch.
So, David Lynch.
Tout de suite, on s'est dit, bon, il y a des fucked up movies.
Right away, we said, well, there are fucked up movies.
Et finalement, pas tant que ça, parce que c'est plus bizarre.
And finally, not so much, because it's weirder.
Mais Eraserhead tombait bien quand même.
But Eraserhead still fell well.
Eraserhead, c'est plus que...
Eraserhead, it's more than...
C'est vraiment peut-être le plus fucked up qu'on ait pu faire.
Maybe it's the most fucked up we could do.
Vraiment.
Really.
Donc, c'est son premier film.
So, it's his first movie.
Et un des meilleurs.
And one of the best.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Qui date de...
Which dates back to...
79.
Voilà.
There.
Il a mis six ans à le faire.
He took six years to do it.
Ouais.
Yeah.
En fait, Lynch, il avait une vie assez particulière.
Actually, Lynch, he had a pretty special life.
C'était vraiment un artiste qui a fait une sorte de bonheur là-bas,
He was really an artist who made some kind of happiness there,
qui était particulier.
which was particular.
C'est le genre de personnage qui avait des collections de chewing-gum mâchées et de mouches,
This is the kind of character who had collections of chewing gum and flies,
tu vois.
See.
Donc, c'est quelqu'un qui était déjà assez surréaliste dans ce qu'il aimait dans la vie.
So, he's someone who was already surreal enough in what he loved in life.
Tu étais en train de me dire, je crois que ta collection de jeux vidéo devient bête.
You were telling me, I think your video game collection is getting silly.
Non, j'ai pas dit ça.
No, I didn't say that.
Non, t'as dit, tu vas devenir un...
No, you said, you're gonna become a...
Un Diogène.
Diogenous.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Ouais, mais c'est pas la même chose.
Yeah, but it's not the same thing.
Oui, bah ça veut dire, tu collectionnes de la merde.
Yeah, well, that means, you collect shit.
Ah non.
Oh, no.
Non, ça veut dire que...
No, that means that...
Non, mais Diogène, il garde tout.
No, but Diogene, he keeps everything.
Moi, c'est des bons trucs que j'aime bien.
I like good stuff.
Mais c'est pas...
But it's not...
J'ai pas tout regardé.
I didn't look at everything.
Oui, mais voilà.
Yes, but that's it.
Ce que je veux dire, je suis pas au niveau...
What I mean, I'm not on the level...
Je m'achetais des jeux de Play 1, bon.
I was buying Play 1 games.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Sur des consoles japonaises que je peux pas brancher, bon.
On Japanese consoles I can't plug in, all right.
Ouais, là, c'est différent.
Yeah, that's different.
Hier, j'ai peut-être acheté un transformateur à 30 euros que j'ai branché là.
Yesterday, I might have bought a 30 euro transformer that I plugged in there.
Tu vois ce noir, là ?
See that black guy right there?
Non.
No.
Elle a explosé.
It exploded.
Mais non, pourquoi ?
But why not?
J'ai failli mourir, bah parce que j'ai mis du 110 sur du 220.
I almost died because I put 110 on 220.
Je sais pas, j'y connais rien.
I don't know anything about it.
Surtout, pourquoi t'as acheté un transformateur dans quel but ?
Most importantly, why did you buy a transformer for what purpose?
Eh bah parce que la console japonaise, tu peux pas la brancher en France.
Well, because the Japanese console, you can't plug it into France.
Ah, putain, t'avais pas celui qu'il fallait.
Oh, fuck, you didn't have the right one.
Et donc, je branche sur mon adaptateur DS, ça va.
And so, I plug into my DS adapter, it's okay.
Je mets sur celle-là, ça fait pip-pip.
I put on this one, it's pip-pip.
Là, comme un con, je me dis...
Now, like a jerk, I think...
Tant par ça fait une petite pipe.
So much for a little blowjob.
Ça fait pip.
That's pip.
Ah, d'accord.
All right.
Et j'ai rebranché.
And I reconnected.
Et là, ça a fait un vrai truc.
And then it did a real thing.
Un vrai truc ?
Something real?
Ouais.
Yeah.
Moi, je me souviens, j'avais fait à l'époque switcher ma console justement pour qu'elle puisse
I remember, I had at the time switched my console just so she could
tout lire, la PS1.
read all, PS1.
Et j'étais allé dans un magasin pour qu'ils me posent la puce.
And I went to a store to put the chip on me.
Et en fait, ils étaient gourés dans le transfo.
And in fact, they were in the transfo.
Et donc, ça a fait le même effet.
And so, it had the same effect.
C'est-à-dire qu'il y a eu un nuage de fumée immédiat.
That is, there was an immediate cloud of smoke.
Sur la console.
On the console.
Enfin non, c'est le transmo qui a pris feu.
I mean, no, the transmo caught fire.
Enfin, pas feu, mais il a cramé direct.
I mean, no fire, but he burned straight.
Alors, je ne sais pas si ça te l'a fait à toi.
So I don't know if it did it to you.
Non, ça me l'a fait.
No, it did.
Mais dans la boutique, c'est répandu une odeur de chou-fleur très violente.
But in the shop, it's spread a very violent cauliflower smell.
Alors, je ne sais pas si toi ça te l'a fait.
So I don't know if you did.
Non, non, moi, ça a pété.
No, no, me, it went off.
J'ai eu hyper peur parce que je me suis dit, t'es quand même tout seul, comme un con dans
I was so scared because I thought, you're still alone, like a jerk in
ton appart.
Your apartment.
Ça fait...
That's...
Une fois ça explose, tu le rebranches parce que là, j'ai cru que j'avais pris le jeu.
Once it explodes, you reconnect it because I thought I took the game.
Mais en fait, non.
But actually, no.
C'est juste que j'ai eu peur.
I just got scared.
En fait, ça a fait un bruit de ouf.
Actually, it made a noise of ouf.
Et tu avais vraiment pris le jus.
And you really took the juice.
Tu n'aurais pas pu décoller ta main en plus.
You couldn't have taken off your hand anymore.
Oui.
Yes.
Ah oui.
Oh, yes.
Le vrai de vrai.
The real one.
Et après, je me rends compte qu'il n'y a plus de courant dans toute cette pièce.
And then I realize there's no power in this whole room.
Ah oui.
Oh, yes.
Tu as vraiment fait disjoncter.
You really got a break.
Comme un blaireau, je tape sur le groupe WhatsApp de la copropriété.
Like a badger, I hit the WhatsApp group from the condominium.
Vous connaissez un électricien ? Après, j'ai dit, mais c'est peut-être juste le
You know an electrician? Then I said, but maybe it's just the
plan qu'on sautait.
We were jumping.
Donc, il y a mon message.
So, there's my message.
Après, je vois que le salon est éteint.
Then I see the living room is turned off.
Je le remets.
I'll put it back.
Ça remarche.
It's working again.
J'enlève mon message comme une merde sur WhatsApp.
I'm taking my message off like shit on WhatsApp.
Comme le dernier con qui n'avait même pas vérifié avant.
Like the last asshole who hadn't even checked before.
Bon, bref.
Anyway.
Pourquoi on parlait de transformateurs japonais ?
Why were we talking about Japanese transformers?
Parce qu'on disait Lynch, il avait des collections particulières.
Because they said Lynch, he had special collections.
Non, ce n'est pas forcément des collections de merde en plus.
No, it's not necessarily a bunch of shit.
Des chewing-gums quand même.
Chewing gums anyway.
C'est des chewing-gums machés.
They're chewing gums.
Tu sais, des fois, on apprécie des choses qui sont…
You know, sometimes we like things that are...
Moi, à un moment, j'avais sur un Tumblr, je prenais en photo des gants par terre,
At one point, I had on a Tumblr, I was taking pictures of gloves on the floor,
des gants tout seuls perdus.
Gloves alone lost.
Et j'en avais fait 200, 300.
And I made 200, 300.
C'est particulier.
It's special.
Tu vois, ça n'intéressait que moi.
See, it was just me.
Mais je trouvais ça rigolo.
But I thought it was funny.
Et donc, en fait, lui, à 21 ou 22 ans, il se marie.
And so, in fact, he, at 21, 22 years old, is getting married.
Il a sa fille, Jennifer Lynch, donc assez jeune.
He has his daughter, Jennifer Lynch, so pretty young.
Et il avait un peu mis de côté les choses.
And he set things aside a little bit.
Et finalement, c'est l'AFI, une école qui lui file une bourse, une école d'art.
And finally, it's AFI, a school that gives him a scholarship, an art school.
L'American Film Institute.
American Film Institute.
Film Institute, exactement.
Film Institute, exactly.
Et du coup, de là, il se dit, bon, alors je vais peut-être pouvoir réussir à faire quelque chose.
And so, from there, he says, well, then maybe I can do something.
Alors, ils le mettent avec les premières années.
So they put it with the first years.
Il n'aime pas trop parce que le level n'est pas le même.
He doesn't like it too much because the level isn't the same.
Franchement, j'imagine déjà à l'époque.
Frankly, I guess at the time.
Donc, il propose un scénar qui n'est pas vraiment abouti, en tout cas pour eux.
So, he proposes a script that is not really successful, at least for them.
Et finalement, il se rabasse sur Air of the Red.
And finally, he's on Air of the Red.
Donc, un synopsis qui tenait sur 22 pages d'un mec.
So, a synopsis that held 22 pages from a guy.
On va le raconter, ce qui se passe.
We'll tell you what's going on.
À la base, ça devait être un peu marrant.
Basically, it must have been a little fun.
D'ailleurs, on le voit au début du film.
Besides, we see it at the beginning of the film.
Ça l'est.
It is.
Au début, ouais.
At first, yeah.
Non, il y a des scènes de comédie.
No, there are comedy scenes.
Oui, au début.
Yeah, at first.
La scène de la valise, c'est du slapstick pur et dur.
The suitcase scene is pure and hard slapstick.
Ouais, ouais.
Yeah, yeah.
Mais petit à petit, il explique quand même qu'à force de faire le film.
But little by little, he explains still only by making the film.
Parce qu'en six ans, on a le temps de changer le problème.
Because in six years, we have time to change the problem.
C'est qu'il met six ans à le faire, ce film.
It takes six years to make this film.
Il n'y a pas l'oseille aussi.
There's no money, too.
Le film, il a réussi à coûter.
The film, it managed to cost.
Il a coûté.
It cost.
On entend bien ou pas, d'ailleurs ?
Do you hear me or not?
Non, on entend bien, mais c'est juste des fois, ça coûte.
No, we can hear, but it's just sometimes, it costs.
Le film a coûté en tout dans les 100 000 dollars.
The whole movie cost $100,000.
Et il y a, entre autres, Sissi Spassek qui a mis de l'oseille dedans.
And there is, among other things, Sissi Spassek who put money in it.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Voilà.
There.
Parce qu'elle avait dû voir les trucs.
Because she had to see the stuff.
Elle a dû se dire, non, mais il faut que ça aille au bout, ce truc-là.
She must have said, no, but this thing has to go to the end.
C'est trop bien.
It's too good.
Et d'ailleurs, l'acteur qui a une coupe bizarre pendant le film a dû la garder pendant
And besides, the actor who has a weird cut during the movie had to keep it for
six ans.
Six years.
Et il a pété un câble.
And he broke a cable.
Il a voulu se barrer du tournage.
He tried to get out of the shooting.
En même temps, moi, déjà, six heures, je pense qu'il faut me payer plus cher.
At the same time, I already have six hours, I think I have to pay more.
Parce que David Lynch, il était très multiculeux.
Because David Lynch, he was very multiculous.
Il faisait des scènes pendant longtemps et tout.
He was doing scenes for a long time and everything.
Et donc, le gars a dû garder cette coupe horrible pendant six ans.
And so, the guy had to keep that horrible cut for six years.
Et à un moment, il a dit, c'est bon, je me casse.
And at one point, he said, it's okay, I'm out.
Et c'est sa meuf au gars, à l'époque, qui lui a dit, mec, tu ne comprends rien au
And that's his girl to the guy back then, who told him, man, you don't understand anything.
film, mais c'est bien.
film, but that's good.
C'est bien.
That's good.
Voilà.
There.
Et cette meuf, j'ai appris.
And that girl, I learned.
Tu sais ce qu'il s'est pour Lynch, après ?
You know what he's after for Lynch?
Non.
No.
Ça devient la meuf à la bûche dans Twin Peaks.
She's turning into a log girl in Twin Peaks.
Ah putain, mais c'est elle.
Oh, God, it's her.
Mais oui, bien sûr.
Yes, of course.
Bien sûr, bien sûr.
Of course, of course.
Donc, pour ceux qui ont vu Twin Peaks, la fameuse meuf à la bûche.
So, for those of you who saw Twin Peaks, the famous log girl.
La dame à la bûche, oui.
The lady at the stake, yes.
D'ailleurs, il y a, dans Air of the Red, il y a la dame au radiateur.
Besides, in Air of the Red, there's the lady in the radiator.
Oui.
Yes.
C'est clairement la même chose.
It's clearly the same thing.
C'est une sorte d'apparition.
It's a kind of appearance.
Et la dame qui a des couilles à la place des joues.
And the lady with balls instead of cheeks.
Alors ça, c'est un autre problème.
So this is another problem.
On en parlera un petit peu plus tard, effectivement.
We'll talk about it a little later, actually.
Il y a plein de dames.
There are plenty of ladies.
Mais le film met pas mal de temps à se financer et à terminer.
But the film takes a lot of time to finance and finish.
Et puis, en fait, le film atteint un statut de film culte grâce aux Midnight Movies.
And then, in fact, the film achieves cult status thanks to the Midnight Movies.
En fait, c'était à l'époque, certains cinémas faisaient des projections de minuit où ils mettaient des films un peu barrés et étranges.
In fact, it was at the time, some cinemas made midnight screenings where they put out a bit of weird and barred films.
Et au début, il n'y a pas grand monde.
And at first, there's not a lot of people.
Et puis, le bouche à oreille est tel que ça commence à blinder de partout.
And then, word of mouth is such that it begins to shield everywhere.
Tout le monde veut le voir.
Everyone wants to see him.
Ça devient un phénomène de société.
It's becoming a social phenomenon.
Ça part à New York.
It's going to New York.
Ça part à San Francisco.
It's going to San Francisco.
Il y a eu pas mal de thèses assez drôles de mecs qui essayaient de comprendre ce que voulait dire le film.
There have been a lot of funny theses of guys trying to figure out what the movie meant.
Alors que Lynch n'a fait que dire pendant des années.
While Lynch just said for years.
Mais rien.
But nothing.
Mais en fait, il a tout résumé sur une interview.
But in fact, he summarized everything about an interview.
Il y a un mec qui lui dit, vous êtes fier de ce film ?
There's a guy who tells him you're proud of this movie?
Et il dit, croyez-le ou non, mais c'est mon film le plus spirituel.
And he says, believe it or not, but it's my most spiritual film.
Et il dit, vous pouvez les ploper ?
And he says, can you plop them?
Il dit non.
He says no.
Ça s'arrête là.
It ends there.
Et Lynch, il a aussi dit, la vie n'a aucun sens.
And Lynch, he also said, life makes no sense.
Pourquoi voulez-vous que mes films en aient ?
Why do you want my movies to have one?
Bien sûr.
Sure.
Et c'est drôle, oui.
And it's funny, yes.
Parce que malgré ça, d'ailleurs, c'est très drôle.
Because despite that, it's very funny.
J'ai lu qu'il y a un gars, il a fait une thèse.
I read there's a guy, he did a thesis.
Il s'est pris la tête.
He took his head off.
Et vraiment, au bout de trois ans, il dit, bon, je crois qu'effectivement, il n'y avait rien.
And really, after three years, he says, well, I think actually, there was nothing.
J'étais sûr.
I was sure.
Mais on s'en fout en plus.
But we don't care.
C'est un peu comme des mecs comme Bunuel, des vrais chantres du surréalisme.
It's kind of like guys like Bunuel, real singers of surrealism.
En fait, ce n'est pas important l'intrigue, quelque part.
Actually, it's not important the plot somewhere.
Lynch, pour moi, il a remis l'église au milieu du village qui est le cinéma.
Lynch, for me, he put the church back in the middle of the village that is cinema.
C'est-à-dire, le cinéma, à la base, c'est quoi ?
That is, cinema, at the base, what is it?
C'est le mouvement.
That's the move.
C'est sensoriel.
It's sensory.
C'est de la magie.
It's magic.
Et Lynch, pour moi, c'est vraiment un peintre qui peint sur pellicule et un magicien.
And Lynch, for me, he really is a painter who paints on film and a magician.
Alors, il fait de la magie noire, mais c'est de la magie.
So he does black magic, but it's magic.
Oui, c'est ça.
Yeah, right.
Un tableau, tu n'es pas obligé de le comprendre pour qu'il te fasse un truc.
A painting, you don't have to understand it to do something to you.
Non, on s'en branle.
No, we don't.
Et là, on s'en fout.
And now we don't care.
Sauf qu'il y a des gens qui vont dire, le tableau, je ne suis pas obligé de rester une heure et demie devant.
Except there are people who are going to say, the painting, I don't have to stay an hour and a half ahead.
Mais là, il se passe des trucs tout le temps.
But there's stuff going on all the time.
Ton tableau, il s'anime pendant une heure et demie.
Your painting, he's been alive for an hour and a half.
Mais je comprends qu'il y ait des gens réfractaires à ça.
But I understand there are people who don't want this.
Parce qu'il y a des gens qui ont besoin...
Because there are people who need...
Déjà, il y a beaucoup de gens qui confondent intrigue et scénario.
Already, there are many people who confuse intrigue and scenario.
Ce n'est pas du tout la même chose.
It's not the same at all.
Il y a des gens qui disent, il n'y a pas de scénario.
There are people who say, there is no script.
Si, c'est juste que toi, il te faut une intrigue.
Yes, it's just you, you need an intrigue.
Il te faut vraiment une histoire simple.
You really need a simple story.
Mais ce n'est pas que ça, le cinéma.
But it's not just cinema.
Le cinéma, c'est des images en mouvement.
Cinema is moving images.
C'est clair que je commence à comprendre pourquoi il y a beaucoup de gens qui finissent,
It's clear that I'm starting to understand why there are many people who end up,
après avoir vu beaucoup de films, à aller dans les films artis un peu chiants.
After seeing a lot of movies, going into artis movies a little boring.
Je peux le comprendre, même si je n'ai jamais voulu le comprendre.
I can understand it, even if I never wanted to understand it.
C'est parce que c'est vrai que là, moi, je suis arrivé au stade où ça y est, les histoires,
It's because it's true that here, I've reached the stage where it's there, the stories,
en soi, ça ne m'intéresse pas.
In itself, I'm not interested.
Parce que je connais tous les mécanismes.
Because I know all the mechanisms.
Je vois toujours où ça va ou où ça ne va pas.
I always see where it's going or where it's not going.
Et les seules histoires qui finissent par m'intéresser, c'est les seules où, en fait,
And the only stories that eventually interest me are the only ones where, in fact,
John Trumby, avec ses trucs du héros, il regarde le truc.
John Tromby, with his hero stuff, he's watching the thing.
Il dit, mais c'est de la merde.
He says, but it's shit.
Il dit, ben oui, mais tant mieux.
He says, yes, but good.
Le film, il arrive, le gars, il est pote avec un gars, il le tue.
The movie, he's coming, the guy, he's friends with a guy, he kills him.
Et puis après, il parle à un chien.
And then he talks to a dog.
Je veux que ça n'a aucun sens, en fait.
I want it to make no sense, actually.
Parce qu'effectivement, comme dans la vie, la vie, tout va bien.
Because indeed, as in life, life, everything is fine.
Puis, il se passe des trucs bizarres.
Then something weird happens.
Bref, donc, c'est vrai que les histoires, moi, ça y est, j'en suis sorti.
Anyway, so it's true that the stories, I'm out.
Parce que j'ai l'impression que c'est toujours le même.
Because I feel like it's always the same.
Disons que ce n'est pas inintéressant de toute manière.
Let's just say it's not uninteresting anyway.
Parce que le grand mythe des histoires, c'est vrai que c'est tout le temps les mêmes patterns,
Because the great myth of stories is true that it's always the same patterns,
les mêmes mécanismes depuis la nuit des temps, quasiment.
the same mechanisms since the dawn of time, almost.
Donc, quand tu commences à décrypter la matrice, tu es un peu moins surpris.
So when you start decrypting the matrix, you're a little less surprised.
Ah, moi, tu n'es pas carrément moins surpris.
Ah, me, you're no less surprised.
C'est genre que tu es fou de rage que ce soit toujours le même film.
It's like you're mad that it's always the same movie.
Oui, mais après, c'est aussi la faute de l'industrie.
Yeah, but then it's also the industry's fault.
Et c'est de pire en pire.
And it's getting worse and worse.
Les producteurs, maintenant, ils ne veulent que te brosser dans le sens du poil.
The producers, now they just want to brush you in the hair.
Et en fait, tu es battu parce que tu te rends compte que,
And actually, you're fighting because you realize that,
et depuis maintenant une dizaine d'années,
and now for ten years,
les très gros succès, c'est toujours des films très, très simples,
very big hits are always very, very simple films,
très faciles d'accès, qui sont presque trop pathos ou tout ce que tu veux.
Very easy to access, which are almost too pathos or anything you want.
Mais parce que ça y est, je pense qu'on est arrivé dans une période
But because that's it, I think we've arrived in a period.
où les gens ne veulent plus être dérangés.
where people don't want to be disturbed.
Ils veulent qu'on leur donne des trucs pré-mâchés tout le temps.
They want us to give them pre-made stuff all the time.
Et c'est malheureux, mais moi, j'ai envie d'être surpris.
And it's unfortunate, but I want to be surprised.
J'ai encore envie d'être surpris.
I still want to be surprised.
Mais pourtant, dans les séries, tu vois, Severance, c'est un peu bizarre.
But in the series, you know, Severance, it's a little weird.
Oui, mais Severance, c'est le pire exemple.
Yes, but Severance is the worst example.
Parce que c'est incroyable, c'est mortel, mais il n'y en a pas dix.
Because it's amazing, it's deadly, but there aren't ten.
Oui, mais aussi, même...
Yes, but also, even...
Et ce n'est pas les séries qui sont les plus populaires pour autant.
And it's not the series that are most popular though.
Et même Severance, ça me fait chier, parce que je le sais,
And even Severance, it pisses me off, because I know,
et je vous le dis d'avance,
and I tell you in advance,
je me suis déjà fait avoir, par Leftovers, partout,
I've been busted by Leftovers, everywhere,
Yorah, la saison 3, par Lost.
Yorah, season three by Lost.
Non, ils ouvrent des portes qu'ils ne savent pertinemment pas comment fermer.
No, they open doors they don't know how to close.
Vous allez être déçus de la fin.
You're gonna be disappointed at the end.
Si vous attendez que tous ces mecs fassent des trucs bizarres
If you wait for all these guys to do weird things
pour vous répondre et que les explications soient folles,
to answer you and that the explanations are crazy,
ça ne va pas être bien.
It's not gonna be good.
Comme mon pote Cam Leftovers dit,
Like my friend Cam Leftovers said,
il dit, mais moi, je m'en fous que ça ne réponde pas aux questions.
He says, but I don't care that it doesn't answer questions.
Mais il faut en être conscient.
But you have to be aware of that.
Parce que si vous regardez pour l'intrigue,
Because if you look for the plot,
alors vous êtes mort parce qu'il n'y a pas de bonne résolution.
Then you died because there is no good resolution.
Mais de toute façon, tu sais pourquoi.
But anyway, you know why.
Encore une fois, pour moi, c'est à nouveau la faute de l'industrie.
Again, for me, this is again the industry's fault.
On t'oblige à penser ce qu'ils appellent un produit,
You have to think what they call a product,
très clairement, sur un laps de temps court.
Very clearly, over a short time.
C'est-à-dire, pense une saison.
That is, think of a season.
Déjà, si un truc aboutit sur une saison, c'est un miracle.
Already, if something happens to a season, it's a miracle.
Tu ne commences pas à chercher une histoire.
You're not starting to look for a story.
Déjà, avoir un pilote, c'est un miracle.
Already, having a pilot is a miracle.
Bien sûr.
Sure.
Donc, tu ne peux pas te dire, en fait, moi, mon truc,
So, you can't actually say, me, my thing,
alors ça se développe à partir de la saison 3,
So it grows from season 3,
nique ta race.
You know what?
Déjà, tu fais une saison 1.
You're already in season one.
S'il n'y a pas les audimates nécessaires, au revoir.
If there aren't the necessary audimates, goodbye.
Donc, ils mettent tout.
So, they put everything on.
Ils mettent tout et ils disent, on verra bien.
They put everything on and they say, we'll see.
Et effectivement, des fois, tu en mets trop.
And actually, sometimes you put too much on.
Non, mais ce que je veux dire, c'est que des fois,
No, but what I mean is, sometimes,
même le truc qui paraît le mieux à la télé,
Even the best thing on TV,
le plus intelligent et tout,
the smartest and all,
derrière cette intelligence, je me suis trop fait baiser
behind this intelligence, I got too fucked
de gens où je me dis, mais s'ils ouvrent toutes ces portes,
People where I think, but if they open all these doors,
c'est qu'ils ont une explication de fou.
They have a crazy explanation.
Souvent, ils n'en ont pas.
Often they don't.
Et Severance, c'est mortel.
And Severance is deadly.
Mais je peux vous dire que moi, j'arrête jusqu'à la fin.
But I can tell you that I stop until the end.
Je vois les gens qui disent, la fin, je l'aime ou je ne l'aime pas.
I see people who say, the end, I love it or I don't like it.
Et là, je regarderai tout.
And then I'll look at everything.
Parce que là, je ne me ferai pas baiser.
Because now I'm not getting fucked.
Je me suis trop fait baiser.
I got too fucked.
J'ai 37 ans, j'ai vu trop de séries où il n'y a pas de réponse.
I'm 37, I've seen too many shows where there's no answer.
Mais ce n'est pas grave qu'il n'y ait pas de réponse.
But it doesn't matter if there's no answer.
Mais non, mais oui, alors tu le dis,
But no, but yes, so you say,
si ce n'est pas grave, tu arrêtes de tout jouer sur les intrigues.
If it doesn't matter, you stop playing everything on the plot.
Oui, d'accord.
Yeah, okay.
Ok, ça, d'accord.
Okay, that, all right.
Mais après, tu parlais de Lost.
But then you were talking about Lost.
Lost, à un moment, il y avait des portes ouvertes.
Lost, at one point, there were open doors.
Si cette porte-là, on n'a pas l'explication, c'est horrible.
If that door, we don't have the explanation, it's horrible.
Non, ce n'est pas grave.
No, it's okay.
Il y a un nuage de fumée.
There's a cloud of smoke.
Ils ont six orteils.
They have six toes.
Bon, il y en a des fois, c'est moyennement expliqué.
Well, there are times, it's moderately explained.
C'est pas grave.
It's okay.
Tout Lost est nul sur le fait que la fin est nulle.
All Lost sucks on the fact that the end sucks.
Parce qu'en fait, tu nous as menti.
Because in fact, you lied to us.
Je ne suis pas d'accord.
I disagree.
Tu nous mens.
You're lying to us.
Je suis un peu d'accord, mais pas autant extrême que toi.
I agree, but not as extreme as you.
Mais je veux dire, à un moment, si tu joues tout sur machin,
But I mean, at some point, if you're playing everything on something,
il y a des tours spoilers, il y a des machins,
There are spoilers, there are things,
et qu'en fait, ton explication, elle est nulle.
And actually, your explanation, it sucks.
En fait, ce qui te plaît dans une intrigue, c'est
In fact, what you like about an intrigue is
« Oh, mais du coup, doigt, s'il n'y a pas… »
"Oh, but then, finger, if there isn't..."
Mais est-ce que ça te gâche la série ?
But does that ruin your show?
Bien sûr, ça te gâche la série.
Of course, it's ruining your show.
Donc toi, si la fin n'est pas à la hauteur de tes attentes,
So you, if the end is not up to your expectations,
tu es comme tous ces gens qui ont vu Game of Thrones
You're like all those people who saw Game of Thrones
et qui ont dit « La fin est nulle, du coup, c'est de la merde ! »
And they said, "The end sucks, so it's shit! »
Mais non, parce que Game of Thrones, pour le coup,
But no, because Game of Thrones, for the moment,
déjà, la fin, ce n'est pas vraiment la fin des livres.
The end is not really the end of the books.
Je te parle de la fin de la série, moi.
I'm talking about the end of the show.
Non, pour le coup, j'aime bien quand même,
No, for the moment, I still like it,
mais ils n'ont pas non plus tout joué sur…
But neither did they play everything on...
C'est rare.
It's rare.
Autour de moi, tu as l'impression que vraiment,
Around me, you feel like really,
tout le monde voulait que meurent les scénaristes.
Everyone wanted the writers to die.
J'étais là « Mais c'est extrême. »
I was there "But it's extreme. »
Non, c'est nul.
No, it sucks.
Et j'étais là « Bon, c'est pas si horrible. »
And I was there "Well, it's not that horrible. »
Oui, mais bon, voilà.
Yeah, but there you go.
Il y a trois fins, de toute façon.
There are three ends, anyway.
Il y a la fin qui est bien, mais convenue.
There is the end that is good, but agreed.
Il y a la fin qui fait chier tout le monde.
There's the end that pisses everybody off.
Et il y a la fin pour les gens intelligents,
And there's the end for smart people,
mais qui, en fait, ne sont pas intelligents
but who, in fact, are not intelligent
parce que, juste, ils ont décidé de cop-out,
Because, just, they decided to cop-out,
c'est-à-dire de faire…
That is, to do...
Moi, je ne sais rien.
I don't know anything.
C'est Les Sopranos.
It's The Sopranos.
C'est 2001.
It's 2001.
Ça tue parce qu'en fait, il n'y a pas de réponse.
It kills because, in fact, there's no answer.
Et en fait, c'est beau, mais c'est la meilleure affaire.
And actually, it's beautiful, but it's the best deal.
Mais ça reste toujours un truc, pour moi, de petite bite,
But it's still something, for me, little dick,
qui est de dire « Bon, moi,
which is to say, "Well, me,
si je dis un truc définitif, ça va être chier.
If I say something definitive, it's gonna suck.
Donc, je laisse ça à l'interprétation,
So I leave this to the interpretation,
comme ça, tout le monde croit que je suis un génie. »
That way, everyone thinks I'm a genius. »
Et ben, ces trois fins-là, j'en peux plus.
Well, those three ends, I can't take it anymore.
Les trois me font chier.
All three of them are shitting me.
C'est pour ça que les histoires, j'en ai rien à foutre.
That's why I don't give a shit about stories.
Dans ces cas-là, pour revenir à Lynch,
In those cases, to get back to Lynch,
tu n'aimes pas le cinéma de Lynch, alors ?
You don't like Lynch's movie, do you?
Eh ben si, c'est ça.
Yeah, that's right.
Parce qu'il n'en a rien à foutre des intrigues, lui.
Because he doesn't give a shit about intrigues.
Dès le début, il se dit que c'est ce que je veux te dire.
From the beginning, he thinks that's what I want to tell you.
Il n'essaie pas de te dire.
He's not trying to tell you.
Et si tu essaies de comprendre pourquoi,
And if you're trying to figure out why,
ben, voilà, effectivement, c'est ce que je veux dire.
Well, that's what I mean.
Il faut capter.
We have to catch.
C'est pour ça que les gens qui aiment Palicci sont chelous,
That's why people who love Palicci are crazy,
parce que c'est genre,
Because it's like,
si tu essaies de voir ça sous le prisme du film normal,
If you're trying to see this under the prism of the normal movie,
tu es foutu.
You're screwed.
Tu es mort.
You're dead.
Mais parce que des gens ont besoin d'être tenus par la main en permanence.
But because people need to be held by hand permanently.
Et c'est la majorité des gens.
And that's the majority of people.
Et ce n'est même pas grave dans l'absolu.
And it's not even serious in the absolute.
Moi, tu peux me dire,
You can tell me,
je déteste le cinéma de Lynch.
I hate Lynch's movie.
Il n'y a pas de souci.
There's no problem.
Tu ne peux pas me dire que c'est de la merde.
You can't tell me this is shit.
C'est bagarre général.
It's a general fight.
J'ai vu.
I saw.
C'est de la merde, c'est bagarre général.
It's shit, it's a general fight.
C'est de l'art pur et dur.
It's pure and hard art.
C'est-à-dire, tu peux être hermétique à ça,
That is, you can be hermetic to that,
mais en termes d'image, en termes de cadrage,
but in terms of image, in terms of framing,
en termes d'ambiance sonore,
in terms of sound environment,
c'est extraordinaire.
It's amazing.
En termes d'originalité.
In terms of originality.
Tu sais tout de suite que c'est lui.
You know it's him right now.
Mais de toute façon,
But anyway,
ce n'est même pas un truc que je pense.
It's not even something I think.
C'est factuel.
It's factual.
Lynch a été une révolution dans le cinéma.
Lynch was a revolution in cinema.
Il a changé la narration au cinéma.
He changed the narrative in the movies.
C'est-à-dire, il y a eu un avant et un après Lynch.
That is, there was one before and one after Lynch.
Il a inventé une façon de raconter des histoires.
He invented a way to tell stories.
Et ce n'est pas pour rien que maintenant,
And it's not just for now,
c'est devenu un adjectif.
It became an adjective.
Quand on dit que c'est lynchien,
When they say it's lynchian,
il y a un avant et un après.
There's a front and a after.
Ce gars-là, c'est l'alpha et l'oméga pour le septième.
That guy is alpha and omega for the seventh.
Il y en a eu d'autres.
There were others.
Mais lui, en tout cas, dans les contemporains,
But he, in any case, in contemporaries,
c'est la dernière grosse date.
It's the last big date.
Ce que je me disais en voyant un racerade,
What I thought when I saw a racerad,
alors bien sûr, il y a un peu l'expressionnisme allemand,
So of course, there's a little German expressionism,
il y a un peu certains trucs,
There are a few things,
mais tu te dis que ça sort quand même de nulle part.
But you think it's coming out of nowhere.
Bien sûr, parce qu'il y a son cerveau aussi dans l'histoire.
Of course, because there's his brain in the story too.
Non, mais c'est ça.
No, but that's it.
Tu vois un peu les trucs d'où ça vient,
You see the stuff that comes from,
mais quand même, tu te dis,
But still, you think,
là, il y a un vrai truc qu'on n'avait jamais vu.
There's a real thing we've never seen before.
Non, non.
No, no.
Et puis, encore une fois, il faut recontextualiser,
And then, again, we have to recontextualize,
c'est en 79.
It's 79.
Oui.
Yes.
Ce n'est pas, bon, maintenant,
It's not, okay, now,
tu as l'habitude de voir des trucs chelous.
You're used to seeing crap.
Là, ce n'est même pas les années 80.
That's not even the '80s.
C'est un ovni total.
It's a total UFO.
Tout le monde est là.
Everyone's here.
Bon, je ne sais pas ce qui se passe,
Well, I don't know what's going on,
mais en tout cas, il se passe un truc.
But anyway, something's going on.
Ça, c'est sûr.
That's for sure.
Et dernier truc pour les gens qui n'aiment pas Lynch,
And last thing about people who don't like Lynch,
je trouve que souvent, on confond
I find that often we confuse
« j'aime pas Lynch » avec « j'aime pas les gens qui aiment David Lynch ».
"I don't like Lynch" with "I don't like people who love David Lynch."
J'ai écouté un podcast.
I listened to a podcast.
Pourquoi ?
Why?
Et il y a un mec qui dit,
And there's a guy saying,
moi, ce n'est pas forcément que je n'aime pas Lynch,
I don't necessarily like Lynch,
mais je viens d'une école de cinéma.
But I'm from a movie school.
Il y avait cinq, six gars trop chiants,
There were five, six guys too boring,
obsédés par Lynch avec des tatouages de Lynch.
obsessed with Lynch's tattoos.
Et dans le monde du cinéma,
And in the world of cinema,
il est révéré par des gens.
He's revered by people.
Et il y avait aussi un autre gars qui avait dit,
And there was also another guy who said,
je ne suis pas content que Lynch soit mort,
I'm not glad Lynch died,
mais je suis content que tous les gens que je n'aime pas soient tristes.
But I'm glad everyone I don't like is sad.
Et il a dit, dans les gens,
And he said, in people,
qu'il y a des gens que j'aime bien qui sont tristes de la mort de Lynch,
There are people I like who are sad about Lynch's death,
mais 100% des gens que je n'aime pas sont tristes.
But 100% of the people I don't like are sad.
Et c'est vrai qu'il représente pour des fans de cinéma
And it's true he represents for movie fans
la quintessence du bobos de merde qui casse les couilles
the quintessence of the shitty bobo that breaks the balls
avec ces films qu'on ne comprend pas.
with those movies we don't understand.
Mais lui, Lynch, il tue.
But he, Lynch, he kills.
Et je pense que Lynch, contrairement à d'autres,
And I think Lynch, unlike others,
par exemple Kubrick,
for example Kubrick,
aussi révéré par des gens relous quand il parle de cinéma,
also revered by relous people when he speaks of cinema,
Kubrick matait
Kubrick was watching
Les Blancs ne savent pas sauter.
White people can't jump.
Tu sais, il adorait ce film.
You know, he loved this movie.
Et je pense que
And I think
Lynch, pareil, était capable de tourner
Lynch, like that, was able to turn
dans des trucs plus grand public
in more mainstream stuff
ou d'aimer certains trucs grand public.
Or to like some mainstream stuff.
Quand les gens qui aiment Lynch
When people who love Lynch
seraient les gars qui disent,
would be the guys who say,
je ne regarde pas ça, parce que tu vois,
I'm not looking at this, because you see,
ils sont très élitistes.
They're very elitist.
Lui, il n'était pas forcément.
He wasn't necessarily.
Mais il n'était pas du tout.
But he wasn't at all.
Et en plus,
And besides,
pour le coup, je pense que Kubrick
for the coup, I think Kubrick
était beaucoup plus élitiste que Lynch
was much more elitist than Lynch
parce que Lynch, c'était vraiment,
Because Lynch, it was really,
à la base,
at the base,
quelqu'un qui aimait déjà profondément
someone who already loved deeply
juste les gens.
Just people.
Il aimait les gens.
He loved people.
Et tu le sens.
And you feel it.
Tu le sens vraiment dans son cinéma.
You really feel it in his movie.
Tu le sens dans un des documentaires
You feel it in one of the documentaries
où il est dedans.
Where he's in.
Tu vois vraiment que c'est un humain
You really see he's a human.
qui est là pour faire de l'art.
who's here to do art.
Lui, tout ce qu'il a envie,
He, whatever he wants,
c'est faire de l'art
It's making art.
et pas casser les couilles.
And not break the balls.
Ça marche, ça ne marche pas.
It works, it doesn't work.
Ce n'est pas son problème.
That's not his problem.
Alors, il vaut mieux que ça marche
So it's better if it works.
s'il veut refaire du cinéma
if he wants to make a movie again
et qu'on remette une pièce.
And we'll give you a play.
Mais il n'y a aucun prod
But there is no prod
qui est arrivé en disant
who came by saying
mec, ça, c'est non.
Man, that's no.
Parce qu'il disait,
Because he said,
bah alors je m'en vais.
Well, then I'm leaving.
Bah oui, c'est ça.
Yeah, right.
C'est tout.
That's it.
Je ne le ferai pas.
I won't.
Et il est méga marrant.
And he's really funny.
Il est bon en acteur.
He's a good actor.
Sa performance dans...
His performance in...
Qui sont d'ailleurs
Who are they?
les deux mêmes performances.
the same two performances.
C'est lui qui fait,
He does,
dans les épisodes
in episodes
de la série de Louis C.K.,
of Louis C.K.'s series,
le producteur
producer
qui le forme à être
who trains him to be
un gars de l'H.
A guy from H.
On va prendre trois épisodes.
We're gonna take three episodes.
C'est génial.
That's great.
Et il fait presque exactement
And it almost exactly does
le même personnage
the same character
quand il fait John Ford
when he makes John Ford
dans le film de Spielberg
in Spielberg's film
où il est exceptionnel.
where it is exceptional.
Il est très marrant.
He's very funny.
C'est genre, mais...
It's like, but...
Il devait être beaucoup plus gentil
He must have been a lot nicer.
que ça en plus dans la vie.
That's more in life.
Mais il a tellement
But he has so much
une tête de connard
a dickhead
qu'il fait trop bien
that he does too well
le gars un peu dur.
The guy a little hard.
Et puis, dans les trucs
And then, in the stuff.
marrants de Lynch,
Fun of Lynch,
ses interviews,
his interviews,
l'interview que tu as cité,
the interview you quoted,
mais il y en a combien ?
But how many are there?
Ah non, il est très drôle.
Oh, no, he's very funny.
Vraiment, c'est quelqu'un...
Really, he's someone...
Mais ouais, parce que justement,
But yeah, because precisely,
je pense que c'est quelqu'un
I think it's someone.
qui a toujours été en décalage
who has always been on a shift
par la force des choses
by the force of things
par rapport, on va dire,
in relation, let's say,
aux gens un peu plus lambda
to people a little more lambda
dans leur personnalité.
in their personality.
Donc, quand tu es autant décalé,
So, when you're so out of line,
je pense que tu essaies
I think you're trying.
de te réadapter
to adapt
et tu deviens marrant.
And you're getting funny.
Juste, tu deviens marrant
Just, you're getting funny
parce que tu dois voir ça
because you have to see this
d'un prisme tellement zarbi.
A prism so zarbi.
Tu savais qu'ils mangeaient
You knew they were eating.
le même truc tous les jours ?
The same thing every day?
Ouais, tout le temps.
Yeah, all the time.
Des tomates séchées aux thons
From dried tomatoes to tuna
et une petite salade
and a little salad
qui se mangeait tous les jours.
eating every day.
Mais parce qu'en fait,
But because in fact,
ça le sécurisait.
It secured him.
Je pense qu'il devait être autiste.
I think he must have been autistic.
Ça marche, il n'a jamais été gros.
It works, it's never been big.
Ah, tu vois ?
See?
Non, mais elle devait être bien,
No, but she had to be good,
cette salade aux thons et aux tomates.
That tuna and tomato salad.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
quand tu boves un peu
when you drink a little
tout le temps la même chose
all the time the same
et que ce n'est pas
and it's not
le spécial du Subway,
Subway special,
c'est cool.
It's cool.
Et du coup,
And so,
je pense que ça le mettait à l'aise.
I think it made him feel comfortable.
Et lui, il disait,
And he said,
moi, j'ai besoin de cette routine
I need this routine.
pour pouvoir créer.
to be able to create.
Et effectivement, du coup,
And actually, so,
il n'avait plus à penser à ça,
He didn't have to think about that anymore,
à la bouffe.
Food.
Donc, il pouvait penser au reste.
So he could think of the rest.
Souvent, les artistes,
Often, artists,
tu te rends compte
you realize
qu'effectivement,
that indeed,
on dit qu'il est fou,
They say he's crazy,
mais en fait,
But actually,
il est fou dans sa tête.
He's crazy in his head.
Mais effectivement,
But actually,
il y a un cadre.
There's a frame.
Il y a toujours un cadre.
There's always a frame.
Il s'habillait à peu près
He was dressing pretty much.
tout le temps pareil aussi.
All the time, too.
C'est Einstein aussi
It's Einstein, too.
qui s'habillait tout le temps
who used to dress all the time
la même chose ?
the same thing?
Bart Simpson aussi.
Bart Simpson, too.
Bart Simpson, ouais.
Bart Simpson, yeah.
Mais Homer Simpson.
But Homer Simpson.
Ah ouais, aussi, ouais.
Oh yeah, too, yeah.
Beaucoup de gens
A lot of people
de dessins animés.
cartoons.
En fait,
Actually,
beaucoup de gens jaunes
many yellow people
s'habillent,
get dressed,
en tout cas,
in any case,
en dessins animés,
in cartoons,
beaucoup de gens jaunes
many yellow people
s'habillent tout le temps
dress all the time
un peu partout.
All over the place.
Oui, sinon,
Yes, if not,
les autres mettent des chapeaux
the others put hats
pour un truc.
for something.
Évidemment.
Of course.
Après,
Then,
ils changent peut-être
Maybe they change.
de chapeau.
hat.
Ça, on ne sait pas.
We don't know that.
Bon,
All right,
c'était une longue intro.
It was a long intro.
Est-ce que tu as
Do you have
d'autres trucs à dire ?
other things to say?
Sur le film ?
On the movie?
Non,
No,
il a rapporté quand même
he still reported
7 millions de dollars
$7 million
pour un budget de 100 000.
for a budget of 100,000.
Donc,
So,
tout le monde commence à faire
Everyone's starting to do
alors qu'est-ce qui se passe ?
So what's going on?
Et du coup,
And so,
pour faire en sorte
to ensure
qu'on retrace un peu
that we trace a little bit
juste son aboutissement
just its completion
au cinéma
in cinema
un peu plus grand public.
A little bigger audience.
Mel Brooks,
c'est ça.
That's right.
Mel Brooks,
un jour,
One day,
va voir en Midnight Movies
Go see Midnight Movies
parce que des gens lui ont dit
because people told him
il faut que tu vois ce truc,
You need to see this thing,
c'est fou.
This is crazy.
Donc,
So,
il va le voir
He'll see him.
et il dit
And he says
ok,
Okay,
bon,
All right,
ça,
This,
c'est un génie.
He's a genius.
Si jamais,
If ever,
à un moment,
at one point,
il veut faire autre chose,
He wants to do something else,
il faut que j'en sois de la partie.
I have to be part of it.
Et donc,
And so,
il a produit les Fentman.
He produced the Fentmans.
Alors,
So,
il a produit les Fentman
he produced the Fentmans
sous un faux nom
under a false name
pour pas que les gens se disent
so people don't think
ah,
c'est un truc de Mel Brooks.
It's a Mel Brooks thing.
On va rigoler.
We're gonna laugh.
Non,
No,
vous n'allez pas rigoler.
You're not gonna laugh.
Il a dit
He said
effectivement aux gens
indeed to people
qui produisent le truc,
that produce the thing,
il faut mettre ce gars,
We have to put this guy on,
il est fou,
He's crazy,
c'est parfait,
It's perfect,
c'est ce qu'il nous faut.
That's what we need.
incroyable.
Incredible.
Et le film est nommé aux Oscars,
And the film is named Oscars,
si je ne dis pas de bêtises à l'époque.
If I don't say anything stupid then.
Il ne gagne pas,
He doesn't win,
mais il est nommé.
But he's named.
Et quelle est la leçon de Lynch
And what is Lynch's lesson?
pour les petits artistes en herbe
for small budding artists
qui nous écoutent ?
Who are listening to us?
Ah,
ça,
This,
j'écoute alors.
I'm listening.
Eh bien,
Well,
c'est qu'il a fait le truc le...
He did the thing the...
Au lieu de se dire
Instead of saying
comment il a réussi
how he did it
à percer à Hollywood,
to drill in Hollywood,
est-ce qu'il a fait dans sa chambre
Did he do it in his room?
un truc qui ressemblait à Hollywood
something that looked like Hollywood
ou est-ce qu'il a fait un truc
or did he do something?
hyper chelou
super hot
jusqu'à ce qu'un gars d'Hollywood
until a guy from Hollywood
dise c'est lui qu'il faut
Says he's the one to be
pour qu'après,
so that after,
il chelouise Hollywood.
He's cheering Hollywood.
Donc,
So,
si vous voulez percer,
If you want to drill,
essayez pas de faire,
Don't try to do it,
et vous avez plus de chance
and you're more fortunate.
à faire votre truc chelou
Doing your shitty thing
que personne n'a vu
that nobody saw
parce que ça peut taper
because it can type
dans l'œil d'un gars
in a guy's eye
qui verra en vous
who will see in you
le gars de demain,
the guy of tomorrow,
plutôt que de faire un truc
Instead of doing something.
qui ressemble déjà
that already looks like
en se disant
by saying
si je veux aller à Hollywood,
If I want to go to Hollywood,
je vais faire un truc
I'll do something.
qui ressemble à Hollywood
that looks like Hollywood
de maintenant.
Now.
Non.
No.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
il a fait un film
He made a movie.
pour que dalle,
for slab,
le film est le plus fou
the movie is the craziest
du monde
world
et il y a un humoriste
and there's a comedian
hyper célèbre
super famous
Mel Brooks
qui fait
which makes
qu'on a eu Lynch,
that we got Lynch,
le chelou
Cheal
dans des productions
production
telles que Elephant Man
such as Elephant Man
et Dune.
and Dune.
Donc,
So,
soyez bizarre.
Be weird.
Voilà,
There you go.
soyez bizarre,
Be weird,
en tout cas,
in any case,
soyez singuliers,
Be singular,
ayez votre vision à vous
Have your own vision
quoi qu'il arrive.
Whatever happens.
Après,
Then,
je nuance
I grade
un film qui ne coûte que dalle,
a film that costs nothing but slab,
100 000 dollars
$100,000
plus la bourse
plus the scholarship
que lui avait filé
who had given him
Elephant Man.
Il y avait une bourse
There was a scholarship.
à la base.
base.
Il y avait une bourse
There was a scholarship.
et c'est pour ça
And that's why
que ça a mis 6 ans,
It took six years,
c'est qu'ils ont dû
They had to.
trouver de l'oseille
find some money
pour aller au bout.
to get to the end.
C'est un artiste.
He's an artist.
Exactement,
Exactly,
c'est un artiste
He's an artist.
mais
but
ce n'est pas le hasard.
It's not random.
C'est-à-dire que
In other words,
la bourse,
the grant,
il ne la file pas
He's not leaving her.
à un clampin
a clasp
qui arrive en disant
who comes by saying
j'aimerais bien faire
I wish I could.
un film de voiture.
A car movie.
Il dit ok,
He says okay,
là il se passe un truc.
There's something going on.
Oui,
Yes,
je sais,
I know,
mais si vous faites
but if you do
un film dans votre chambre
a movie in your room
et que vous n'avez pas de thunes,
and you have no money,
faites un truc chelou.
Do something weird.
En tout cas,
Anyway,
faites un truc
Do something.
qui ne ressemble pas
who doesn't look like
forcément aux autres
Of course to others
juste parce que
Just because
vous vous dites
you're thinking
il faut que ça ressemble.
It has to look like it.
Et déjà,
And already,
faites un truc
Do something.
parce que oui,
because yes,
on vit dans une époque
we live in a time
où on peut filmer
where we can film
avec un téléphone,
with a phone,
c'est incroyable.
It's amazing.
Il avait eu sa bourse,
He had his scholarship,
il avait eu sa bourse certes,
He had had his scholarship,
mais quand même,
But still,
il aurait pu lâcher l'affaire
He could've dropped the case.
mille fois.
A thousand times.
Bien sûr.
Sure.
Et ça prouve aussi.
And it also proves.
D'autant plus qu'il a un gosse,
Especially since he has a kid,
tu vois,
See,
il a des problèmes.
He's in trouble.
D'ailleurs,
Besides,
une citation trop marrante,
a funny quote,
le gars n'aime vraiment pas
the guy really doesn't like
sa ville de base.
its base town.
Il a dit
He said
il fallait vraiment
You really had to
que je finisse ce truc
I'll finish this thing.
parce que je voulais vraiment
because I really wanted
tellement partenir
So much to share
à Philadelphie.
Philadelphia.
Et d'ailleurs,
And besides,
Philadelphie
Philadelphia
et son côté industriel
and its industrial side
pourri et horrible,
rotten and horrible,
ça l'a beaucoup influencé.
It's influenced him a lot.
C'est ce qu'il essaie
That's what he's trying to do
de montrer
to show
dans le film.
in the movie.
Que ce soit dans l'ambiance
Let it be in the mood
esthétique
aesthetics
et dans l'ambiance sonore
and in the sound atmosphere
parce que clairement,
because clearly,
l'ambiance sonore,
the sound atmosphere,
c'est de l'industrie.
It's industry.
C'est de la musique industrielle.
It's industrial music.
Pure et dur.
Pure and hard.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
toi t'écoutes
You're listening.
et là,
and there,
putain,
Fuck,
c'est un banger.
He's a banger.
Pour moi,
For me,
c'est Hans Schurzer
It's Hans Schurzer.
de Neubotten
of Neubotten
pour ceux qui connaissent.
for those who know.
C'est vraiment des bruits.
It's really noise.
C'est des bruits de perceuse
It's drill sounds.
et des bruits de marteau,
and hammer sounds,
mais ça sonne.
But it's ringing.
Il s'est trop cassé
He broke too much.
les couilles pour la musique d'ailleurs.
the balls for the music.
Pourtant,
Yet,
il est maniaque du détail
It's maniac detail
surtout.
Especially.
Il faisait bouger
He was moving.
des carcasses d'animaux,
animal carcasses,
des trucs.
stuff.
Il a fait n'importe quoi.
He did anything.
Il a fait ce qu'il voulait
He did what he wanted.
vraiment faire.
Really do.
Mais c'est vrai
But it's true.
que l'influence
influence
de la musique,
music,
de ciné,
Film,
il y a plein de trucs visuels.
There's a lot of visual stuff.
Mais bien sûr.
Of course.
Après,
Then,
attention,
Be careful,
pour moi,
For me,
c'est ce qu'on appelle
That's what we call
au sens premier du terme
in the first sense of the term
un génie.
A genius.
Maintenant,
Now,
tout le monde est des génies.
Everyone is geniuses.
Non,
No,
ce n'est pas parce que
It's not because
tu as mangé deux fois de suite
You ate twice in a row.
des hot dogs
Hot dogs
sans avaler
without swallowing
que tu es super.
That you're great.
Moi,
Me,
je le fais 17 fois.
I do it 17 times.
Tu vois,
See,
tu n'es pas super.
You're not great.
Donc,
So,
Lynch,
par contre,
However,
c'est vraiment
It really is.
un génie
a genius
au sens premier du terme.
in the first sense of the term.
Mais en fait,
But actually,
je pense que tu atteins
I think you're reaching
ce stade-là
this stage
pas en restant
not by staying
juste dans ta chambre.
Just in your room.
Tu sens ses influences.
You feel his influences.
Même dans le film,
Even in the movie,
j'avais posté
I posted
l'autre jour
the other day
sur Instagram
on Instagram
les référents
referents
qui n'en étaient
who were not
pas forcément
not necessarily
intellectuellement parlants,
intellectually speaking,
mais en tout cas
but in any case
qui ont influencé
who have influenced
son travail.
His work.
Francis Bacon.
Dali parle aussi.
Dali speaks too.
Dali aussi
Dali too
parce que le surréalisme.
because surrealism.
Mais Bacon,
But Bacon,
tu le ressens particulièrement
you feel it especially
en plus dans
and more in
Air of the Red,
le bébé
the baby
dont on va parler.
We're gonna talk about it.
il ressemble énormément
It looks a lot like
à un tableau de Bacon
a Bacon painting
qui est un triptyque
which is a triptych
qui s'appelle
called
Three Figures
in a Base of a Crucifixion,
un truc comme ça.
Something like that.
Bon,
All right,
bref,
Anyway,
on s'en fout.
We don't care.
Vous cherchez
Looking for
si vous avez envie.
If you want to.
Et à un moment,
And at some point,
sur le troisième triptyque,
on the third triptych,
le troisième morceau
the third piece
du tableau,
of the table,
on voit une sorte
we see a sort of
de monstre chelou
A freaky monster
avec un cou très long
with a very long neck
à la moichoire ouverte.
Open mowing.
On dirait vraiment
It really looks like
le bébé.
The baby.
Et dans d'autres tableaux,
And in other paintings,
à travers son travail artistique,
through his artistic work,
tu retrouves,
You find it,
à travers toute son œuvre,
through all his work,
des vrais référents visuels
real visual referents
qui sont,
which are,
pas des copiés-collés,
Not copied-paste,
mais très inspirés
but very inspired
de certaines des peintures
of some of the paintings
de Bacon.
Bacon.
Donc évidemment,
So obviously,
Dali aussi,
Dali too,
parce que,
because,
ben voilà,
There you go.
en termes de surréalisme,
in terms of surrealism,
Dali,
c'est carrément un autre step.
It's definitely another step.
Il met vraiment
He really does.
100 mètres
100 metres
à Lynch,
in Lynch,
Dali,
en termes de
in terms of
Il est très loin devant.
He's way ahead.
Autre leçon,
Another lesson,
si vous devez vous inspirer
if you need to be inspired
des gens,
people,
et tout le monde est inspiré,
and everyone is inspired,
essayez de vous inspirer
Try to inspire yourself
d'autres génies.
other geniuses.
Si vous écoutez
If you listen
que Joule,
that Joule,
la musique que vous allez faire,
the music you're going to make,
sera inspirée.
will be inspired.
Non mais je veux dire,
No, but I mean,
souvent,
often,
on va se prendre du backlash,
We're gonna get backlash,
mais je suis d'accord
but I agree
avec toi quand même.
Still with you.
Ce n'est pas les mêmes auditeurs,
They're not the same listeners,
mais je veux dire,
But I mean,
non mais en vrai,
No, but in real life,
souvent,
often,
quand j'aime bien un gars,
When I like a guy,
je regarde
I'm watching
qui l'a inspiré
who inspired him
et je dis,
and I say,
ah,
il n'avait pas choisi
He didn't choose
des peintres à piquer.
painters to sting.
Tout le monde pique,
Everybody stings,
alors piquer au plus grand.
then sting to the largest.
Quitte à piquer,
Quit stinging,
quitte à ceux
to those
qui ont déjà
who already have
les poches bien pleines.
The pockets are full.
Voilà.
There.
Dernière leçon,
Last lesson,
il a mis 6 ans à le faire
It took him six years to do it.
et après,
and then,
c'était un putain de réel
It was a fucking real.
quand on lui a donné de l'argent,
When they gave him money,
alors que manifestement,
while obviously,
il n'avait pas fait
He didn't do it.
toutes les écoles et tout.
All schools and everything.
Et ça rejoint
And it joins
une phrase de Tarantino
one sentence of Tarantino
qui dit,
which says,
mon école de cinéma,
my film school,
je l'ai passé à faire
I've done it.
mon premier film
my first film
que personne n'a vu,
that no one has seen,
My Best Friend Birthday,
un truc comme ça.
Something like that.
Il dit,
He says,
j'ai galéré pendant 6 ans
I've been gallant for six years.
à le faire
to do so
et une fois que j'avais fait
and once I had done
ça,
This,
j'avais fait mon école de cinéma
I went to my movie school
parce que j'avais tout appris
because I learned everything
sur le tas.
On the job.
C'est ce qu'on dit toujours
That's what they always say.
aux gens qui nous disaient,
to the people who told us,
comment on fait du stand-up ?
How do we do stand-up?
Fais du stand-up,
Stand up,
c'est tout.
That's all.
Donc,
So,
ne cherchez pas.
Don't look.
Si vous êtes deux
If you are two
au fond de votre garage
at the bottom of your garage
avec votre pote
with your buddy
et essayez de faire un film,
and try to make a movie,
vous avez plus de chances
you have a better chance
d'apprendre que des blaireaux
to learn that badgers
qui payent 10 000 euros
paying 10 000 euros
une école.
A school.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
tu arrives,
You're coming,
tu tentes,
You try,
tu plantes,
you plant,
tu vois ce qui fonctionne,
You see what works,
ce qui ne fonctionne pas
what doesn't work
et tu apprends
and you learn
avec l'expérience en fait.
with experience in fact.
On ne va pas vous le cacher,
We're not gonna hide it from you,
ça va quand même être bien
It's going to be okay anyway.
de la merde,
Shit,
vos films.
Your movies.
9 sur 10.
9 out of 10.
De bonnes saletries.
Good dirtyies.
Mais si ça se trouve,
But if it happens,
dans le tas,
in the pile,
il va y avoir un truc incroyable.
There's gonna be something amazing.
Il y aura un nouveau Lynch.
There'll be a new Lynch.
Et ça nous évitera peut-être
And maybe it'll save us.
de regarder Minecraft 8.
to watch Minecraft 8.
Exactement.
Exactly.
Après,
Then,
Tarantino,
il est particulier aussi
it is also particular
parce que je pense
because I think
que c'est un des mecs
He's one of the guys.
qui a vu le plus de films
who saw the most movies
au monde.
in the world.
Donc,
So,
entre-temps,
Meanwhile,
il a réussi très certainement
He's certainly succeeded.
parce qu'il a eu
because he had
une intelligence assez rare
a rather rare intelligence
en plus à synthétiser tout ça
Plus to synthesize all this
et à en faire un objet
and to be a object of it
qui devient un truc singulier
which becomes a singular thing
qui s'approprie.
that is appropriate.
Oui,
Yes,
c'est pas mal.
It's not bad.
C'est pas tout le monde,
Not everyone,
quoi.
What.
Oui,
Yes,
maintenant,
Now,
il faut regarder plein de trucs.
You have to look at a lot of things.
Alors,
So,
on va faire,
We'll do,
c'est parti.
Here we go.
Après,
Then,
cette longue intro,
this long intro,
on fait comme d'hab,
We do as usual,
on explique le film en entier.
We explain the entire film.
Je fais la première moitié.
I'm doing the first half.
Oui.
Yes.
Dedo,
la deuxième.
Second.
Des fois,
Sometimes,
quand vous écoutez
when you listen
Fucked Up Movies,
on raconte des trucs
We're talking stuff.
et vous dites,
And you say,
j'ai l'impression de voir
I feel like I'm seeing
le film dans ma tête.
The movie in my head.
Là,
There,
pas du tout.
Not at all.
Là,
There,
vous n'allez rien comprendre
You won't understand.
parce que même si vous le voyez,
because even if you see it,
vous ne le comprenez pas.
You don't understand.
Et on parlait de génie
And we were talking about genius.
pour rapport à ce qu'on disait.
in relation to what we were saying.
Kubrick,
dont on parlait,
of which we were talking,
Aldi,
de son vivant,
in his lifetime,
qu'Eraserad était son film préféré.
that Eraserad was his favorite movie.
Ah ouais ?
Yeah?
Voilà.
There.
Bon,
All right,
ben bam.
Well, bam.
Alors que Kubrick,
While Kubrick,
vraiment,
Really,
en termes d'élitisme total,
in terms of total elitism,
il était très chaud.
He was very hot.
Il a dit,
He said,
bon,
All right,
ça...
This...
Je rappelle qu'il aime quand même
I remind him he still likes
Les Blancs ne savent pas sauter
Whites can't jump
avec Woody Harrelson.
Woody Harrelson.
Mais c'est vachement bien.
But that's really good.
Je suis désolé,
I'm sorry,
ce film est très cool
This movie is really cool.
et je le rematte moi-même régulièrement.
and I rewrite it myself regularly.
Je le trouve très bien.
I think he's fine.
Mais ça me fait rire
But it makes me laugh
parce que du coup...
Because then...
T'as vu l'écart ?
Did you see the gap?
Les Blancs ne savent pas sauter
Whites can't jump
et Razerad.
And Razerad.
Ouais,
Yeah,
dans le tas,
in the pile,
il fait deux,
It's two,
trois trucs sympas aussi.
Three nice things too.
Mais tout ça pour dire,
But all that to say,
soyez élitiste,
Be elitist,
mais soyez pas chiants.
But don't be boring.
Non.
No.
Non, non, non.
No, no, no.
On peut avoir les deux.
We can have both.
Au contraire,
On the contrary,
il faut avoir les deux.
You have to have both.
Les vrais génies ont les deux.
Real geniuses have both.
Mais bien sûr.
Of course.
C'est très rare,
It's very rare,
un gars qui fait que des trucs chiants
A guy who's just doing shit.
et qui n'aime que des trucs chiants.
And who loves nothing but boring stuff.
Mais un gars qui fait que des trucs chiants,
But a guy who does nothing but boring stuff,
qui n'aime que des trucs chiants,
Who loves nothing but boring stuff,
il est chiant.
He's boring.
Oui.
Yes.
Donc t'as pas envie de lui parler déjà.
So you don't want to talk to her already.
Exact.
Right.
Et surtout,
And most importantly,
il va pas avoir envie de parler aux gens
He's not gonna want to talk to people.
parce qu'il va considérer
because he'll consider
que tous les gens,
that all people,
ils sont nuls par rapport à lui.
They suck at him.
Et c'est très rare.
And it's very rare.
Nolan est en train de devenir comme ça.
Nolan is becoming like this.
C'est un autre débat.
This is another debate.
Et c'est très rare.
And it's very rare.
Si Tarantino,
If Tarantino,
il avait bouffé que les films B et Z
He ate only the films B and Z
dans sa vie,
in his life,
ce serait pas mal ce qu'il fait.
That would be pretty good what he's doing.
Mais c'est bien qu'il ait vu
But it's good he saw
un peu de Godard,
A little Godard,
un peu de Kubrick,
A little Kubrick,
un peu de Kurosawa.
A little Kurosawa.
En fait,
Actually,
il faut quand même mélanger les deux.
You still have to mix both.
Nous,
We,
on ne veut pas faire les élitistes.
We don't want to be elitist.
On regarde des sacrés bouses.
We're looking at some hell of a bunch of drunks.
Dedo,
en film d'horreur,
in horror film,
il a dû regarder des trucs ignobles.
He must've looked at some horrible stuff.
Mais c'est quand même pas mal
But it's still not bad.
de se faire chier la bite.
Fuck your dick.
Même s'il faut voir le film en trois fois,
Even if you have to see the movie in three times,
même si c'est en noir et blanc,
even if it's black and white,
même si c'est en japonais,
Even if it's in Japanese,
c'est quand même mieux.
It's still better.
Votre film ne sera que mieux.
Your film will be better.
Oui,
Yes,
mangez bien.
Eat well.
Mangez bien pour...
Eat well for...
De temps en temps.
Sometimes.
Un bon McDo.
A good McDo.
Je vais faire une métaphore
I'll make a metaphor.
un peu triviale.
A little trivial.
Mais quand tu manges bien
But when you eat well
et que tu vas à la selle,
And you go to the saddle,
ta matière fécale,
your faecal matter,
en général,
in general,
elle est parfaite.
She's perfect.
Si tu manges de la merde,
If you eat shit,
très souvent,
very often,
c'est poudreux.
It's powdery.
Voilà,
There you go.
c'était un peu graphique.
It was a little graphic.
On peut démarrer,
We can start,
je pense.
I think so.
Mais voilà.
There you go.
Mais si vous mangez un peu bien,
But if you eat a little well,
un peu pas bien,
A little bad,
ça va aller.
It's okay.
Ça va.
Alors,
So,
le film commence.
The movie starts.
C'est donc cet acteur
So it's that actor.
avec cette coupe bizarre
with that weird cut
que vous avez vue sur la pochette,
that you saw on the pouch,
qui est un mélange
which is a mixture
de Chris Isaac
by Chris Isaac
et de John C. Reilly.
And John C. Reilly.
Oui,
Yes,
oui,
je valide.
I'm valid.
Qui flotte dans les airs
Who floats in the air
et derrière,
and behind,
on voit la Terre.
We see Earth.
Voilà,
There you go.
ne cherchez pas à savoir pourquoi.
Don't ask why.
Il y a sa grosse tête sur le côté.
There's his big head on the side.
On est un peu dans l'espace presque.
We're almost in space.
On est dans l'espace.
We're in space.
Et dans l'espace,
And in space,
plus gros que la Terre,
bigger than Earth,
il y a la tête de John C. Isaac.
There's John C. Isaac's head.
Et on voit un trou
And we see a hole
et on se rapproche doucement du trou.
And we're slowly getting closer to the hole.
Là,
There,
mais là,
But here,
je vous dis ça,
I'm telling you this,
il se passe 4 minutes.
It's four minutes.
Bien sûr.
Sure.
Attendez,
Wait,
ce n'est pas 10 secondes ça,
It's not 10 seconds,
il faut que ça vive.
It has to live.
Et là,
And there,
on est en noir et blanc.
We're in black and white.
On est en noir et blanc.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
attention,
Be careful,
on est en noir et blanc
We're in black and white.
parce qu'il veut être en noir et blanc.
Because he wants to be black and white.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
c'est pas forcé en 79.
It's not forced in '79.
Oui,
Yes,
oui,
mais c'est un choix esthétique,
But it's an aesthetic choice,
c'est un parti pris de photos.
It's a photo bias.
Ça coûtait moins cher aussi.
It was cheaper, too.
Exactement,
Exactly,
mais c'est aussi un parti pris.
But it's also a bias.
Le directeur de la photo a dû se dire
The photo director must have said
non,
No,
mais c'est bien de le faire comme ça.
But it's good to do it like that.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
bah là,
Well,
il y a des trucs qu'on doit voir,
There are things we need to see,
c'est bien qu'on les voit moins.
It's good to see them less.
Oui,
Yes,
mais surtout même en termes de couleurs
but especially in terms of colours
et de rendu.
and rendering.
Non,
No,
mais ça rajoute un côté inquiétant au film.
But it adds a disturbing side to the film.
Et puis ça rajoute ce côté effectivement,
And then it adds that side actually,
film à mon chelou.
movie to my dick.
Ça,
That,
pour le coup,
for the coup,
tu vois,
See,
je les ai vus.
I saw them.
Je sais pas ce que si je faisais un film,
I don't know what if I made a movie,
ça me porterait.
It would carry me.
Je les ai vus.
I saw them.
Bon,
All right,
c'est dur quand même.
It's hard anyway.
On va pas se mentir,
We're not gonna lie.
c'est dur.
It's hard.
Tu parles de quel ?
What are you talking about?
Tout ce qui est...
Everything that's...
J'aime bien que ta main qui tourne.
I like your hand spinning.
Non,
No,
mais tu vois ce que c'est.
But you see what it is.
Tout ce qui est en noir et blanc affreux
Everything that's in dreadful black and white
avec les perspectives bizarres.
with strange prospects.
Ça dépend,
Depends,
moi,
Me,
des trucs que j'aime bien,
stuff I like,
quoi.
What.
Ouais,
Yeah,
mais moi,
But me,
c'est incartable.
It's unbeatable.
Enfin,
Finally,
je dors,
I sleep,
quoi.
What.
Non,
No,
si tu me le mets au ciné et tout,
If you put him in the movies and everything,
j'y vais.
I'm going.
Mais je les ai tous.
But I have them all.
Genre,
Like,
l'expressionnisme allemand,
German expressionism,
c'est pas mon délire.
It's not my delusion.
Tout ça,
All this,
mais c'est carrément pas mon délire du tout.
But it's definitely not my delusion at all.
Mais je l'ai vu parce que je vois
But I saw him because I see
ce que ça influence.
what it influences.
Je te jure que je te montre des films
I swear I'm showing you movies.
que tu surkiffes,
that you're overkicking,
c'est évident.
It's obvious.
Non,
No,
c'est impossible.
It's impossible.
Docteur Mabuse,
Dr. Mabuse,
des trucs de Fritz Lang,
Fritz Lang stuff,
c'est sûr que tu vois.
Sure you see.
Tout ça,
All this,
j'ai vu.
I saw.
J'ai vu.
Mais c'est de la torture à voir pour moi.
But it's torture for me.
C'est-à-dire que je ne m'amuse jamais.
That is, I never have fun.
Ah non,
Oh, no, no.
non,
No,
c'est pas...
It's not...
Oui,
Yes,
je vois ce que tu veux dire.
I know what you mean.
Je suis au musée,
I'm at the museum,
quoi.
What.
J'y vais vraiment...
I'm really going...
J'entends.
I hear.
Et je vois que ça a apporté graphiquement
And I see it has brought graphically
à certains trucs que j'adore.
Some things I love.
Un truc comme M. le Maudit,
Something like Mr. Cursed,
c'est un putain de grand film.
It's a big fucking movie.
M. le Maudit,
Mr. Cursed,
pour le coup,
for the coup,
j'aime vraiment bien.
I really like it.
Ah ouais ?
Yeah?
Non,
No,
mais j'y vais vraiment bien
But I'm really fine.
M. le Maudit.
Mr. Cursed.
Ah ouais ?
Yeah?
Il faut en fait,
We have to, actually,
il faudrait pour moi,
It would take me,
une bande son moderne
a modern soundtrack
dans un cinéma.
In a movie theater.
Tu sais,
You know,
des fois,
sometimes,
ils refont,
They do it again,
parce que la musique,
because music,
tu peux la changer à l'époque.
You can change it back then.
Donc des fois,
So sometimes,
il y a des groupes de prog,
There are prog groups,
carrément,
Quite,
ils font des trucs
They do stuff.
avec des films en noir et blanc.
with black and white films.
Et pendant le cinéma,
And during the cinema,
c'est un ciné-concert
It's a movie-concert
avec de la musique
with music
qui, genre,
who, like,
colle aux images,
stick to the images,
mais qui tue.
But who kills.
Alors là,
So there,
je peux le...
I can...
Ils avaient fait ça
They did that.
pour le Dracula
for Dracula
de Terrence Fisher,
of Terrence Fisher,
ils avaient fait ça,
They did that,
ils avaient réorchestré
They had reorchestrated
avec Kronos Quartet.
with Kronos Quartet.
Kronos Quartet,
c'est le groupe,
It's the band,
pour ceux qui parlent,
for those who speak,
qui a fait la BO
who made the BO
de Requiem for a Dream.
from Requiem for a Dream.
OK.
Okay.
Pas vraiment Jazzy,
Not really Jazzy,
Patrick Sébastien.
Non,
No,
mais c'est vrai que ça...
But it's true that...
Et c'était mortel.
And it was deadly.
Parce qu'à l'époque,
Because back then,
le truc n'avait pas
the thing didn't have
de bande-son à titrer.
I've got a soundtrack to cover.
Exactement.
Exactly.
Donc vas-y,
So go ahead,
fais de la bonne musique
Make good music
par-dessus.
Over.
Donc on voit la terre,
So we see the earth,
on voit un trou
we see a hole
qui se rapproche.
that's getting closer.
Là,
There,
on tombe dans un appart,
We fall into a flat,
il y a un homme
There's a man
qui regarde par la fenêtre
looking out the window
et il a beaucoup de pustules.
And he's got a lot of pustules.
On est sur Pustule Man,
We're on Pustule Man,
il est à la fenêtre.
He's in the window.
Voilà.
There.
Plan de coupe sur Riley,
Cutting plan on Riley,
c'est le même,
It's the same,
il flotte,
it floats,
mais là,
But here,
il y a un parasite dégueu.
There's a gross parasite.
Je ne sais pas comment
I don't know how
vous expliquez
you explain
une sorte de...
Some kind of...
Le parasite, quoi.
The parasite.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Un long verre
A long glass
avec une grosse tête
with a big head
très longue, horrible.
Very long, horrible.
Pour moi,
For me,
et encore une fois,
and again,
il n'y a pas de bonne explication,
There is no good explanation,
il n'y a que de l'interprétation.
There's only interpretation.
Ouais, je retouche.
Yeah, I'm retouching.
Pour moi,
For me,
c'est une sorte de...
It's some kind of...
C'est une métaphore
It's a metaphor
d'une sorte d'un spermatozoïde.
some kind of sperm.
Oui.
Yes.
Pour moi,
For me,
c'est vraiment une métaphore
It's really a metaphor.
filée sur une naissance
spun on a birth
parce qu'on voit justement
'Cause we just see
ce moment
this moment
où on va vers le trou
where we go to the hole
comme si on allait sortir
Like we're going out.
et voir quelque chose.
and see something.
Oui,
Yes,
parce qu'on a fait des caisses
because we made crates
sur le film incompréhensible,
on the incomprehensible film,
mais en vrai,
But actually,
c'est quand même beaucoup
It's still a lot.
un film sur la peur
a film about fear
de la paternité.
paternity.
Ah bah clairement.
Well, clearly.
Voilà.
There.
Ouais, après,
Yeah, then,
il dit juste,
He's just saying,
moi, je ne dis rien,
I'm not saying anything,
démerdez-vous avec ça.
Get over it.
Mais effectivement,
But actually,
il avait déjà, lui,
He already had,
ses problématiques,
his problems,
je pense.
I think so.
Alors problématiques,
So issues,
elle n'était peut-être pas,
Maybe she wasn't,
mais je pense qu'avoir un enfant
But I think I have a child.
très jeune et te marier très jeune,
very young and get married very young,
à un moment,
at one point,
ça peut être pesant.
It can be heavy.
Tu sens que,
You feel like,
alors c'est peut-être pas ça,
So maybe it's not that,
mais tu te dis,
But you're thinking,
peut-être qu'à un moment,
Maybe at some point,
dans sa vie,
in his life,
il a dû se dire,
He must have said,
si je n'avais pas eu cet enfant,
If I hadn't had that child,
peut-être que j'aurais eu
Maybe I'd have had
une vie différente.
a different life.
Ah ouais, c'est sûr.
Oh yeah, sure.
C'est un truc sur le poids
It's a weight thing.
de la paternité énorme.
huge paternity.
Et l'angoisse que ça procure,
And the anxiety it brings,
même en termes de responsabilité.
even in terms of liability.
Il avait dit un truc
He said something.
qui,
which,
ce qui le fascinait dans la vie,
what fascinated him in life,
c'était le fait qu'on côtoie
It was the fact that we're around.
la réalité normale
the normal reality
était quand même très souvent
was still very often
mitoyenne d'horreur.
Horror tributary.
Tu vois,
See,
tu peux tomber sur un gars
You can run into a guy.
qui se fait renverser la tête.
who gets his head overturned.
Enfin, tu vois,
I mean, you know,
on vit une vie,
we live a life,
on fait semblant,
We're pretending,
mais en fait,
But actually,
tu vois,
See,
moi,
Me,
il n'y a pas longtemps,
Not long ago,
je suis allé voir ma grand-mère
I went to see my grandmother.
mourir à l'hôpital.
To die in the hospital.
J'ai vu des scènes de films
I've seen movie scenes
de Lynch horrible.
A horrible Lynch.
Et juste après,
And right after,
j'étais là,
I was there,
oh,
Oh,
au flunch,
flunch,
tu vois ce que j'ai là.
See what I got here.
On côtoie l'horreur tout le temps.
We're always watching horror.
Et surtout,
And most importantly,
le quotidien
daily
côtoie régulièrement
regularly
le pire.
the worst.
C'est ça.
Right.
Et ça,
And this,
il le transcende complètement
He transcends it completely
dans Blue Velvet
in Blue Velvet
où vraiment,
where really,
c'est une petite ville de banlieue
It's a small suburban town.
où tout a l'air parfait.
where everything looks perfect.
C'est le premier plan du film.
This is the foreground of the film.
Il y a une musique un peu rétro,
There's a little retro music,
des enfants qui jouent,
children playing,
qui sourient.
smiling.
Et d'un coup,
And suddenly,
il y a un plan
There's a plan
qui zoome de plus en plus
which zooms more and more
vers de l'herbe,
grassworm,
un gazon,
a grass,
on va dire,
Let's say,
un jardin mitoyen.
A terraced garden.
Et en fait,
And actually,
dans cette herbe,
in this grass,
il y a une oreille coupée,
There's a cut ear,
ensanglantée
Bloody
avec des fourmis
with ants
qui tournent autour.
that revolve around.
Et lui,
And him,
il a toujours été là-dedans.
He's always been in there.
Derrière les choses
Behind things
les plus basiques
the most basic
se cachent certainement
are certainly hiding
des choses
things
beaucoup plus effrayantes.
much more frightening.
Oui,
Yes,
c'est ça.
That's right.
C'est pareil,
It's the same,
c'est Hollywood,
It's Hollywood,
mais regardez derrière Hollywood.
But look behind Hollywood.
Le cinéma de Lynch,
Lynch's movie,
c'est ça.
That's right.
Oui,
Yes,
bon ben voilà.
There you go.
Donc,
So,
on dit incompréhensible,
they say incomprehensible,
pas tant que ça.
Not so much.
Les thèmes sont assez basiques.
The themes are quite basic.
Les thèmes sont visibles
The themes are visible
en tout cas pour ceux qui...
Anyway for those who...
Là,
There,
le dégueu à la fenêtre,
the disgusting in the window,
toujours beaucoup de pustules.
Always a lot of pustules.
Il actionne un levier
It activates a lever
et là,
and there,
il n'y a plus de parasite.
There's no parasite left.
Voilà.
There.
Il le refait
He does it again.
et le parasite tombe
and the parasite falls
dans un cratère.
in a crater.
Le trou se déplace.
The hole is moving.
Je sais que ça n'a aucun sens
I know it doesn't make any sense.
ce que je raconte.
What I'm talking about.
Je vous le dis.
I'm telling you.
Je note exactement
I write down exactly.
tout ce que je voyais.
Everything I saw.
Alors,
So,
il faut savoir que
you must know that
quand je l'ai revu,
When I saw him again,
c'était juste avant
It was just before
que je sois malade.
I'm sick.
C'était la veille
It was the day before.
de peut-être
of perhaps
qu'on allait se voir.
We were gonna meet.
Ah ben oui,
Oh, yes.
je me souviens.
I remember.
J'avais 42 fielles.
I had 42 girls.
Je suis en train
I'm on my way.
de délirer total.
delusional.
J'étais un peu bourré.
I was a little drunk.
Il était minuit.
It was midnight.
Mais tu as dû faire
But you had to
une séance trop belle.
Too beautiful a session.
C'était vraiment trop bien.
It was so good.
Relly marche
Relly walks
et va dehors
and go outside
sur un chantier
on a site
monter sur des cailloux
get on rocks
avec un sac à la main.
With a bag in hand.
Il marche dans la rue.
He walks on the street.
Il marche dans
He walks in
des vieux immeubles chelous.
old buildings.
Alors là,
So there,
il faut rendre compte
accountability
de l'atmosphère.
the atmosphere.
C'est industriel,
It's industrial.
horrible.
Industriel.
Industrial.
Pas un arbre.
Not a tree.
Chaque fois qu'il marche,
Every time he walks,
c'est horrible.
It's horrible.
Mais par contre,
But on the other hand,
justement,
precisely,
il y a des...
There are...
Ça, c'est le côté
That's the side
artiste peintre aussi de Lynch.
painter of Lynch too.
Les cadres,
The executives,
typiquement,
typically,
il y a un plan
There's a plan
où on le voit marcher
where you see him walking
devant des...
in front of...
des façades d'immeubles,
facades of buildings,
on dirait vraiment
It really looks like.
des tableaux.
tables.
C'est très, très beau.
It's very, very beautiful.
C'est-à-dire que
In other words,
c'est délabré,
It's gone.
c'est déshumanisé
It's dehumanized.
et en même temps,
and at the same time,
esthétiquement,
aesthetically,
ça pète.
It's farting.
C'est clair.
That's clear.
Le film est magnifique.
The film is beautiful.
Magnifique dans l'horrible.
Beautiful in the horrible.
Mais c'est trop bien fait.
But it's too well done.
Donc,
So,
il rentre dans un appart
He's going into an apartment.
mais pourri,
but rotten,
horrible.
L'ascenseur est pourri.
The elevator's rotten.
Le couloir est horrible.
The corridor is horrible.
Tout est sort d'un cauchemar.
It all came out of a nightmare.
C'est ça.
Right.
On est vraiment
We really are.
dans un cauchemar réveillé,
in an awakened nightmare,
en fait.
Actually.
Et tu parlais de l'ascenseur.
And you were talking about the elevator.
Les portes de l'ascenseur,
The elevator doors,
c'est des œuvres d'art
They're works of art.
à part entière.
full.
Les portes sont,
The doors are,
on dirait,
Looks like,
les portes de l'enfer.
The gates of hell.
Oui,
Yes,
mais vraiment,
But really,
il s'est fait chier
He's fucked up.
à chaque plan.
to each plan.
Oh là là !
Oh, there!
Il met la clé
He puts the key
et là,
and there,
il y a sa voisine d'en face
There's his neighbor across the street.
qui lui demande
who asks him
s'il est Henri.
If he's Henri.
Et il dit oui.
And he says yes.
Elle lui dit,
She tells him,
Marie est appelée,
Mary is called,
elle est chez ses parents,
She's at her parents' house,
elle t'attend pour dîner.
She's waiting for you for dinner.
Il faut savoir
We need to know.
qu'il a toujours
that he still has
une tête apeurée,
a frightened head,
chelou.
Chew.
On sent que ce n'est pas
You feel it's not
un mec très souriant
A very smiling guy
et qui vit la vie pleinement.
and who lives life fully.
Non,
No,
mais tu vois,
But you see,
dès que tu lui parles,
As soon as you talk to her,
il est genre,
He's like,
il ne va pas bien.
He's not well.
Non.
No.
Il n'y a personne chez lui,
There's no one at home,
il n'y a rien,
There's nothing,
c'est glauque,
It's creepy.
c'est vraiment terrible.
It's really terrible.
La vie sans internet
Life without the Internet
était un calvaire.
was a calvary.
Il se met un vinyle
He puts on a vinyl
de vieux jazz,
Old jazz,
ça rajoute à l'ambiance.
It adds to the atmosphere.
Horrible.
C'est horrible.
That's horrible.
Il enlève ses chaussures,
He takes off his shoes,
il met une chaussette dégueu
He's wearing a gross sock.
sur un radiateur très chaud
on a very hot radiator
qui fume
who smokes
et qui fait beaucoup de bruit.
And makes a lot of noise.
sa vue,
his sight,
c'est un mur de briques.
It's a brick wall.
Il est triste
He's sad.
et on le comprend.
And we understand it.
C'est ça que j'avais noté.
That's what I wrote down.
Il va dans le tiroir
He goes in the drawer
et récupère la photo
and get the photo
déchirée d'une meuf.
torn by a girl.
On voit une...
We see a...
Et après,
And then,
il y a un plan de coupe
There's a cutting plan.
et on voit cette même meuf
And we see that same girl.
qui est à la fenêtre,
which is at the window,
inquiète,
worried,
sûrement en attendant Harry,
Probably waiting for Harry,
c'est la fille de la photo.
She's the girl in the picture.
Lui,
He,
il marche seul dans la nuit,
He walks alone in the night,
c'est encore plus glauque.
It's even more creepy.
Il y a des chiens qui aboient,
There are dogs barking,
il a peur des chiens,
He's afraid of dogs,
c'est terrible.
It's terrible.
C'est un autre endroit
It's another place.
de la ville
City
mais qui est atroce.
But who is atrocious.
Tout est atroce.
It's all awful.
C'est pas très...
It's not very...
Vraiment,
Really,
tout cet endroit
This whole place
est une sorte
is a kind
d'antichambre
antechamber
du purgatoire.
Purgatory.
C'est vraiment
It really is.
très, très déprimant.
Very, very depressing.
Lui,
He,
il n'est pas bien.
He's not good.
Surtout quand elle lui dit
Especially when she tells her
il y a les parents
There are parents
de ta meuf.
Of your girl.
On se doute
We don't know.
que c'est sa meuf,
She's his girl,
les parents de Marie
Mary's parents
qui veulent t'inviter à bouffer.
who want to invite you to eat.
Tu ne sais même pas
You don't even know
s'ils sont encore ensemble ou pas.
If they're still together or not.
Tout est un peu glauque.
Everything's a little creepy.
Et là,
And there,
vraiment,
Really,
si vous trouvez
if you find
ce qu'on décrit actuellement glauque,
what is currently described glaucous,
attachez vos ceintures.
Fasten your belts.
Mais là,
But now,
si vous avez eu
if you have had
des premiers dates
of first dates
ou deuxièmes,
or second,
si vous avez rencontré
if you have met
vos beaux-parents
your in-laws
et que c'était de la merde,
And that it was shit,
voilà.
There.
Là,
There,
vous êtes battus.
You're beaten.
Personne ne peut battre
No one can beat
ce qui va se passer
what will happen
au repas derrière.
at dinner in the back.
Donc la meuf attend à la porte.
So the girl's waiting at the door.
Il lui dit,
He tells her,
elle a l'air de l'engueuler.
She seems to be yelling at her.
Il dit,
He says,
je ne sais pas
I don't know.
que tu voulais que je vienne.
That you wanted me to come.
Moi,
Me,
tu ne m'appelles plus.
You're not calling me anymore.
Elle dit,
She says,
allez,
Come on.
c'est bon,
It's okay,
ça va être prêt.
It'll be ready.
Tu rentres.
You're coming home.
Là,
There,
il y a une vieille
There's an old lady.
qui l'attend
who awaits him
qui lui dit
who tells her
de s'asseoir.
to sit down.
Il y a une chienne
There's a bitch
qui se fait téter.
who gets sucked.
Par beaucoup de chiots.
A lot of puppies.
Beaucoup.
A lot.
Mais il y en a au moins,
But there are at least,
je ne sais pas,
I don't know,
dix.
Ten.
Et ça,
And this,
on est encore
We're still
dans l'horreur de Lynch.
In the horror of Lynch.
C'est-à-dire,
That is,
c'est la vie,
It's life,
un chien qui se fait téter.
A dog that gets sucked.
Mais en vrai,
But actually,
dès qu'il y a...
As soon as there's...
Tu rajoutes des personnages
You add characters
un peu abscourts autour.
A little short around.
En fait,
Actually,
dès qu'on met beaucoup de gens...
As soon as we put on a lot of people...
J'ai vu une blague
I saw a joke.
de Doxtano
of Doxtano
il n'y a pas longtemps
Not long ago
qui dit,
which says,
mais chaque humain
but every human
que vous créez,
that you create,
vous dévaluez
you lose
la valeur de l'humain.
the value of the human.
C'est comme de l'argent.
It's like money.
Et il dit,
And he says,
parce que là,
because there,
on est 7 milliards.
We're seven billion.
Les gens deviennent
People become
moins importants.
less important.
De base.
Basic.
Il dit,
He says,
si vous avez rentré chez lui
if you went home
et que vous avez,
and you have,
chez vous,
home,
vous avez un petit chat
you have a little cat
qui est trop mignon
who's so cute
et que tu es là,
and you're here,
oh,
Oh,
Mr. Buggles,
je t'aime trop.
I love you too much.
Tu rends ma vie incroyable,
You make my life amazing,
Mr. Buggles.
Il dit,
He says,
super.
Great.
Il dit,
He says,
si vous rentrez chez vous
if you go home
et qu'il y a 700 chatons,
and there are 700 kittens,
vous allez commencer
you'll start
à les écraser.
to crush them.
Il dit,
He says,
chéri,
Honey,
sors mes chaussures de golf
Take out my golf shoes
ce soir.
Tonight.
On écrase des chats.
We crush cats.
Eh bien,
Well,
c'est pareil.
It's the same.
Un chien qui t'aide
A dog that helps you
peut être un peu beau.
Maybe a little pretty.
Tu vois,
See,
par exemple,
for example,
les chiennes avec leurs piques,
bitches with their spades,
ça me dégoûte.
It disgusts me.
Il n'y a rien de plus naturel.
There's nothing more natural.
C'est la vie.
It's life.
Ça me dégoûte.
It disgusts me.
Je comprends.
I get it.
Ça me dégoûte.
It disgusts me.
Mais regarde,
But look,
Alien,
en fait,
Actually,
tous les trucs,
All the stuff,
on dit,
They say,
ah,
les films d'horreur,
horror movies,
c'est horrible.
It's horrible.
Les films d'horreur
Horror movies
se basent tous sur la vraie vie
all based on real life
et qui est horrible.
And that's horrible.
Nous,
We,
on a de la chance.
We're lucky.
On arrive à faire des trucs
We can do things.
complices et tout.
And everything.
Mais il y a des gens
But there are people
pour qui la vraie vie,
for whom real life,
c'est juste
It's just
quand est-ce que ça s'arrête ?
When does it stop?
Oui,
Yes,
mais même la base
but even the base
de la vie organique,
organic life,
un accouchement,
childbirth,
c'est horrible.
It's horrible.
Oui,
Yes,
oui,
oui.
Yeah.
L'intérieur de deux langues
Interior of two languages
qui se touchent
touching each other
à se rouler des pelles,
rolling shovels,
c'est immonde.
It's disgusting.
Ça,
That,
ça va.
It's okay.
Non,
No,
quand tu le fais,
When you do,
c'est cool.
It's cool.
Tu as déjà vu une vidéo
You've seen a video before.
de langues qui s'enroulent,
of rolling languages,
c'est ignoble.
It's disgusting.
Je trouve ça.
I think so.
Il y a Aeon Flux,
There's Aeon Flux,
un animé américain
an American animated
des années 90-2000,
of the 1990s-2000,
où tu as une scène
where you have a scene
vraiment où tu vois
really where you see
vraiment les langues
really languages
parties dans tous les sens et tout.
parts in all directions and everything.
Ça peut devenir graphique
It can be graphic.
intéressant.
Interesting.
l'intérieur d'un corps.
inside a body.
Rien que votre tête,
Just your head,
rien que le plus beau visage
Only the most beautiful face
du monde,
of the world,
je t'enlève
I'll take you off.
la...
the...
Marilyn Monroe,
juste on lui scalpe
We just scalp him.
et tu es à l'intérieur.
And you're inside.
Mais c'est horrible.
But it's horrible.
C'est normal,
That's normal.
mais à un moment,
But at some point,
un chat sans poils,
a cat without hair,
ce n'est pas la même.
It's not the same.
Voilà.
There.
Même un humain de base,
Even a basic human,
tu lui enlèves un sourcil.
You take away an eyebrow.
Ah bah oui,
Oh, yeah.
c'est bizarre.
It's weird.
C'est horrible.
That's horrible.
Mais un peu marrant quand même.
But a little fun anyway.
Mais très marrant.
But very funny.
Moi,
Me,
tu vas lui dire,
You're gonna tell him,
franchement,
Frankly,
tu as le handicap
you have a disability
un peu marrant
A little funny.
que je connaisse le plus.
I know the most.
Donc,
So,
ils n'ont rien à se dire.
They have nothing to say.
Marie fait une crise,
Marie's having a crisis,
elle hurle.
She's screaming.
Il y a un vieux
There's an old man.
qui débarque,
who lands,
il a l'air sympa,
He looks nice,
il dit qu'il y a du poulet
He says there's chicken.
à manger.
food.
Commence à gueuler
Start yelling
sur les trucs du quartier,
on the neighborhood stuff,
parler de son physique.
talk about his physics.
Il est chelou.
He's crazy.
Random,
il n'est pas très cohérent.
It's not very consistent.
Le vieux qui parle
The old talker
et qui parle de sa vie.
and who talks about his life.
Tu sais,
You know,
il a l'air sympa.
He looks nice.
Tu dis,
You're saying,
il a l'air sympa.
He looks nice.
Puis après,
Then,
au bout de cinq minutes
after five minutes
qu'il parle,
that he speaks,
tu dis,
You say,
ah oui,
Yeah,
tu es fou.
You're crazy.
Sa meuf lui dit,
Her girl said,
c'est bon,
It's okay,
tu te casses.
You're breaking up.
La mère fait une salade
Mother makes a salad
en étant énervée.
being upset.
Je ne sais pas,
I don't know,
elle jette la salade,
She throws the salad,
elle fait la salade.
She's making salad.
Ça l'énerve.
He's upset.
Attends,
Wait.
il y a l'histoire
There's the story.
de la vieille dame
of the old lady
à qui elle fait faire la salade
to whom she makes salad
ou c'est ça après ?
Or is it after that?
Après,
Then,
d'abord,
first,
elle l'a fait
She did it.
et après,
and then,
elle pose la salade
She lays the salad
sur les genoux
on your knees
d'une encore plus vieille
of an even older
et elle lui touille
And she's tumbling him.
la salade dessus.
The salad on it.
En fait,
Actually,
elle lui prend ses bras
She takes her arms
pour touiller la salade.
To stain the salad.
Mais je pense que ça,
But I think that,
tu vois,
See,
c'est bien
That's good.
parce que ça redonne
'Cause it gives back
un rôle aux personnes
a role for people
du troisième âge
Senior Citizens
et ça devient
and it becomes
une sorte de table.
Some kind of table.
C'est pas mal,
It's not bad.
au moins,
at least,
elle servait à quelque chose.
It was for something.
Oui,
Yes,
parce que là,
because there,
on parle d'une vieille
We're talking about an old woman.
méga vieille.
Mega old.
Je pense que c'est
I think it's
sa mère peut-être.
Maybe his mother.
Vous voyez ce moment de vieille
You see this old time
où juste la seule fonction,
where just the only function,
c'est d'être sur une chaise
It's being in a chair.
et de plus rien faire.
And do nothing more.
C'est un stade de vieille
It's an old stage.
comme ça.
Like this.
En fait,
Actually,
pour moi,
For me,
c'est des batteries à acariens.
They're mite batteries.
C'est comme dans Matrix,
It's like in Matrix,
si vous voulez,
If you want,
c'est des piles
They're batteries.
et à un moment,
and at one time,
il faut quelque chose
We need something.
pour les nourrir.
to feed them.
Quand ta peau,
When your skin,
ça devient du parquet,
It's becoming a public prosecutor,
c'est le signe
that's the sign.
qu'il faut partir.
we have to go.
Je dis,
I say,
elle lui allume un clopion,
She lights him a clopion,
d'accord ?
Okay?
Elle lui allume
She lights him up.
un clopion à la vieille.
An old-fashioned clopion.
Oui,
Yes,
parce qu'en se disant...
Because by saying...
Elle peut kiffer un peu quand même.
She can kick a bit anyway.
Ou mourir vite.
Or die fast.
Prends-en mille.
Take a thousand.
Et en même temps,
And at the same time,
supplémentaire nure,
additional nure,
t'es une table.
You're a table.
Est-ce que c'est pas marrant
Is that not funny?
une table qui fume ?
A smoking table?
Ah, c'est excellent.
Ah, that's excellent.
Tu vois,
See,
on fait des blagues,
We make jokes,
c'est normal.
It's normal.
Le mec s'occupe du poulet,
The guy takes care of the chicken,
il revient,
He's coming back,
il reparle de son physique
he talks about his physique
comme les vieux
Like old people
qui disent que son bras est pourri.
who say his arm is rotten.
Les vieux font toujours ça.
Old people always do that.
Tu vois,
See,
ce genou-là,
That knee,
avant,
before,
c'était de la mousse.
It was foam.
Ouais, voilà.
Yeah, there you go.
Je sais pas,
I don't know.
les vieux,
old people,
arrêtez de nous parler
Stop talking to us
de vos problèmes de sang.
Your blood problems.
Soit vous crevez.
Either you die.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
franchement,
Frankly,
vous schlinguez.
You're schling.
Pas toujours.
Not always.
Vous schlinguez.
You're schling.
Bon.
All right.
Et vous avez l'air
And you look
d'être...
to be...
On le sait.
We know that.
Apprends-moi un autre truc.
Tell me something else.
Je passe pas ma vie
I'm not spending my life
de dire,
to say,
tu sais que j'ai les cheveux longs.
You know I have long hair.
Tu le sais.
You know that.
Bah oui,
Yeah.
ça se voit.
I can tell.
C'est bon.
It's okay.
Moi,
Me,
je suis tout pourri.
I'm all rotten.
On le savait,
We knew,
on parle d'autre chose ou quoi ?
Are we talking about something else?
Parce qu'après,
Because then,
tu me dis,
You tell me,
oh,
Oh,
tu viens jamais manger chez moi.
You never come home to eat.
Bah oui,
Yeah.
c'est trop de la merde
It's too much shit.
ce que tu me racontes aussi.
What you tell me, too.
Après,
Then,
le problème,
the problem,
c'est que des fois,
It's only sometimes,
tous leurs potes,
All their friends,
ils sont morts.
They're dead.
Mais oui,
But yes,
mais...
But...
Donc après,
So then,
ils s'ennuient.
They're bored.
Mais en vrai,
But actually,
les gens qui ont des potes
People with friends
et vous leur parlez
and you speak to them
de vos soucis,
of your worries,
mais niquez-vous.
But fuck yourself.
Ah moi,
Ah, me,
alors moi,
So me,
totalement d'accord avec ça.
I totally agree with that.
On vient vous voir.
We're here to see you.
Venez,
Come on,
on parle d'autre chose.
We're talking about something else.
On va passer un bon moment,
We're gonna have a good time,
nous.
us.
On peut pas parler.
We can't talk.
Alors,
So,
de temps en temps,
occasionally,
ça va pas.
It's not okay.
On discute,
We're talking,
y'a pas de soucis.
It's okay.
Une fois,
Once,
toutes les dix fois.
Every ten times.
Mais pas tout le temps.
But not all the time.
Mais tain,
But ten,
c'est ouf.
It's crazy.
Tout le temps,
All the time,
tu te plains.
You're complaining.
Tout le temps,
All the time,
c'est pas bien ta vie.
It's not your life.
C'est pas possible.
It can't be.
Il y a des vieilles,
There are old people,
leur seule activité,
their only activity,
c'est de parler des trucs
It's talking about stuff.
qui vont pas.
That's not right.
Du coup,
So,
ils disent,
They say,
c'est quoi ?
What is it?
Si moi,
If I do,
c'est pas bien la vie,
It's not good life,
toi,
You,
ça va pas être bien la vie.
It's not gonna be good life.
Tu vois cette veine-là ?
See that vein?
T'as vu comme elle est grosse ?
Did you see how fat she is?
Eh ben,
Well,
elle est grosse depuis
She's been fat since
huit ans maintenant.
Eight years now.
Tu vois ce que c'est gros ?
See what's big?
Comme tu as une vache,
Since you have a cow,
c'est gros.
It's big.
Tu as une montagne,
You have a mountain,
c'est gros.
It's big.
Tu as une planète,
You have a planet,
c'est gros.
It's big.
Et elle peut faire ça
And she can do that.
pendant huit ans.
For eight years.
Ah mais ce que je viens de faire,
Oh, but what I just did,
c'est un peu marrant.
It's a little funny.
Une vieille comme toi,
An old woman like you,
je dirais,
I'd say,
c'est cool.
It's cool.
J'aime bien aller la voir.
I like to go see her.
Là,
There,
ce serait trop bien.
That would be too good.
Donc voilà,
So here you go,
il fait ce vieux-là.
He's doing that old guy.
Non,
No,
parce qu'on est beaucoup,
Because we're a lot,
les vieux,
old people,
ils sont seuls.
They're alone.
Il y a des raisons aussi.
There are reasons too.
Il y a des raisons.
There are reasons.
On va mourir,
We're gonna die,
Joanne,
j'espère.
I hope so.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
on n'a pas fait de petits-enfants
We didn't make grandchildren.
pour leur casser les couilles.
To break their balls.
Ah non,
Oh, no, no.
c'est vrai que nous,
It's true that we,
au moins,
at least,
on prendra la tête.
We'll take the lead.
Si,
Yes,
peut-être aux gens
Maybe people
de la maison de retraite,
the retirement home,
à la limite.
to the limit.
Mais bon,
But, well,
ils sont payés.
They're paid.
Mais en vrai,
But actually,
j'espère qu'on sera un petit.
I hope we're a kid.
Jean Rochefort,
il était marrant.
He was funny.
Ah bien sûr.
Of course.
On peut être vieux et marrant,
We can be old and fun,
en fait.
Actually.
On va être marrant,
We're gonna be fun,
c'est sûr.
Sure.
Après,
Then,
peut-être nous,
Maybe we,
on va être marrant
We're gonna be fun.
et les gens,
and people,
ils vont dire
They'll say
ils ne sont pas marrants.
They're not funny.
Ce n'est pas grave,
It's okay,
tu vois.
See.
Mais on aurait essayé.
But we would have tried.
On aurait essayé.
We would have tried.
Voilà.
There.
Putain.
Fuck.
Pardon,
Excuse me.
les vieux qui parlent
Old people talking
de leurs problèmes physiques,
their physical problems,
j'en ai trop eu.
I've had too many.
Non,
No,
mais c'est juste que...
But it's just...
Après,
Then,
c'est notre faute,
It's our fault,
on ne va pas traîner avec eux.
We're not hanging out with them.
C'est normal aussi.
It's normal, too.
C'est vrai.
That's right.
Soyez un peu détente
Be a little relaxing
et on va traîner un peu plus
And we're gonna hang out a little bit more
avec les gens.
With people.
Mais les vieux,
But old people,
on vous pardonne plus.
We forgive you more.
Les vieux,
Old people,
pardon.
I'm sorry.
Les vieux,
Old people,
oui.
Yeah.
Les jeunes,
Young people,
c'est sans pitié.
It's merciless.
Les jeunes qui se plaignent
Young people complaining
tout le temps.
All the time.
Alors,
So,
dans ces cas-là,
in these cases,
la mort,
death,
la mort.
death.
Elle est possible.
It's possible.
Aller en Suisse
Go to Switzerland
parce que c'est légal.
Because it's legal.
On paye,
We pay,
nous ?
Us?
On paye.
We pay.
Alors là ?
What's up?
Franchement,
Honestly,
tu mets la moitié,
You put in half,
je mets l'autre moitié
I'll put the other half on.
et au moins,
and at least,
on n'est tranquille.
We're not quiet.
On n'est aucun souci.
We're all right.
Voilà.
There.
Et Yacine Belouz ?
What about Yacine Belouz?
Yacine,
il ne fait pas que ce plat.
It's not just that dish.
Ce n'était pas toi,
It wasn't you,
Yacine.
Ce n'était pas toi.
It wasn't you.
C'est un autre Yacine Belouz.
It's another Yacine Belouz.
Il faut absolument
It is absolutely necessary
qu'on invite Yacine
that we invite Yacine
et qu'on débriefe
And we debrief
le spectacle
the show
qu'on a vu ensemble
that we saw together
au Japon
Japan
avec mon vieil Yacine.
with my old Yacine.
Ah putain,
Oh, my God.
ça,
This,
tu ne m'as pas raconté non plus.
You didn't tell me either.
Donc,
So,
il parle de son véné,
He talks about his vene,
il lui dit de couper,
He told him to cut,
ah ouais,
Yeah,
il lui dit
He tells her
coupe le poulet
Cut the chicken
mais le poulet est minuscule.
But the chicken is tiny.
Oui,
Yes,
c'est un poulet plus proche
It's a closer chicken.
de la grive,
of the grive,
du moineau.
Sparrow.
Pareil,
Same,
dans les choses
in things
qui me dégoûtent.
that disgust me.
Évidemment,
Of course,
les trucs
the stuff
qui ne font pas
who do not
la bonne taille.
the right size.
Ah,
comme ton pénis.
Like your penis.
Non,
No,
mais genre,
But like,
tu vois,
See,
les œufs de caille,
quail eggs,
ça me dégoûte.
It disgusts me.
Mais pourquoi ?
But why?
Manger des tout petits œufs.
Eat tiny eggs.
C'est un peu mignon.
That's a little cute.
Mais non,
But no,
mais en fait,
But actually,
alors tu ne pourrais pas
then you couldn't
manger des œufs d'autruche.
eat ostrich eggs.
Voilà,
There you go.
ça me dégoûte aussi
It also disgusts me.
les gros œufs.
Big eggs.
Mais tu as décidé
But you decided
que la taille normale
normal size
d'un œuf,
an egg,
c'était poule.
It was chicken.
C'était un œuf,
It was an egg,
ouais.
Yeah.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
mais c'est arbitraire.
But it's arbitrary.
Ouais,
Yeah,
je l'ai décidé.
I've decided.
Et un œuf,
And an egg,
ça ne dégoûte pas.
It doesn't disgust.
Si j'avais vraiment
If I really had
un œuf énorme,
a huge egg,
on se le coupe en quatre,
We cut it in four,
c'est rouge avec du plastique autour.
It's red with plastic around.
Moi,
Me,
je le jette.
I throw it away.
Après,
Then,
vous faites ce que vous voulez.
You do what you want.
Apparemment,
Apparently,
c'est un mais très usité
it's a but very used
et très,
and very,
très bon dans la société française.
very good in French society.
Non,
No,
non,
justement,
precisely,
ce n'est pas classe le Babybel,
It's not classy the Babybel,
mais on aime le Babybel.
But we love Babybel.
Ah,
vous aimez le Babybel.
You love Babybel.
Mais donc voilà,
But here it is,
donc le poulet tout petit,
So little chicken,
je ne sais pas pour vous expliquer,
I don't know to explain,
ça me dégoûte.
It disgusts me.
C'est un poulet,
It's a chicken,
nain.
dwarf.
Ouais,
Yeah,
mais c'est rare.
But it's rare.
Un poulet de petite taille,
A small chicken,
pardon.
I'm sorry.
C'est sûr de bouffer du pigeon,
Sure to eat pigeon,
quoi.
What.
Ça me deg,
I don't know.
quoi.
What.
Ah,
ça ne ressemble pas à un poulet,
It doesn't look like a chicken,
je pense,
I think,
un pigeon cuit.
A cooked pigeon.
Non,
No,
mais...
But...
Un pigeon,
A pigeon,
en plus,
in addition,
on le voit un peu sale,
You see him a little dirty,
nous.
us.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Quand il touche le mini poulet du sensor
When it touches the sensor mini chicken
et les pattes se mettent à bouger toutes seules,
and the legs begin to move by themselves,
la mère a un orgasme en kiffant.
The mother has an orgasm while kiffing.
Ouais,
Yeah,
c'est...
It's...
Au début,
At first,
tu te dis,
You're thinking,
elle est en transe
She's in trance.
et après,
and then,
tu te dis,
You're thinking,
ah non,
No,
c'est plus que de la transe,
It's more than trance,
j'ai l'impression.
I feel like it.
Donc là,
So here,
donc...
So...
Attention,
Be careful.
c'est glauque.
It's creepy.
Tu arrives chez tes beaux-parents,
You come to your parents-in-law,
il y en a un qui est chelou,
There's one who's crazy,
l'autre,
the other,
elle fume des...
She smokes...
Là,
There,
il y a la vieille,
There's the old lady,
elle sert de table,
it serves as a table,
elle fume des clopes.
She smokes cigarettes.
Il ramène un poulet minuscule,
He brings back a tiny chicken,
à peine il le touche,
He barely touches him,
il y a des sangs,
There's blood,
le truc bouge tout seul.
The thing moves on its own.
Ils sont quatre dessus en plus,
They're four on top,
ça ne va pas faire grand chose.
It won't do much.
Et la mère commence à faire...
And the mother starts to do...
Ah,
ah,
genre elle kiffe,
Like she's hot,
c'est une vision d'horreur.
It's a vision of horror.
C'est vraiment une vision de cauchemar total.
It's really a total nightmare vision.
Après,
Then,
en plus,
in addition,
il dit le poulet saigne,
He says chicken bleeds,
mais même en noir et blanc.
But even in black and white.
Tu sens que ce n'est pas rouge,
You feel it's not red,
ce qui sort du poulet.
what comes out of the chicken.
Ah,
c'est génial.
That's great.
C'est très noir.
It's very black.
C'est noir,
It's black,
noir,
black,
noir.
black.
C'est horrible.
That's horrible.
C'est pas très joli à regarder.
It's not very nice to watch.
Elle kiffe son orgasme,
She likes her orgasm,
puis elle chiale,
Then she's crying,
puis elle se barre.
Then she's gone.
Oui.
Yes.
Après,
Then,
un moment,
a moment,
tu as des réactions,
You have reactions,
des fois,
sometimes,
que tu ne contrôles pas.
That you don't control.
Et sa fille la suit.
And her daughter follows her.
Donc,
So,
ils sont comme des cons,
They're like jerks,
le père
the father
et le gars
And the guy.
qui viennent voir ça.
Who come to see this.
Le père,
The father,
qui pourtant aime bien parler,
who likes to speak,
là,
There,
ne le moufte pas.
Don't move it.
Il est un peu bloqué.
He's a little stuck.
Ils sont en train de manger ce malaise
They're eating this unease.
tous les deux.
Both of you.
Il est délicieux.
It's delicious.
Tu en reprendras bien une part.
You'll get a piece of it.
Ils sont tous les deux.
They're both.
C'est horrible.
That's horrible.
Et il lui dit,
And he tells her,
alors,
So,
tu sais quoi ?
You know what?
Puis,
Then,
il le fixe en souriant,
He stares at him smiling,
sans bouger.
Don't move.
Pire date chez les beaux-parents,
Worse date for stepparents,
ever.
Ever.
C'est ça que j'ai l'intention.
That's what I intend.
Et surtout qu'il sourit
And especially as he smiles
avec un sourire figé
with a frozen smile
en le matant
watching him
en plan fixe
in fixed plane
et ça dure longtemps.
And it lasts a long time.
Et tu es vraiment là,
And you're really here,
ah,
je n'aime pas du tout
I don't like it at all.
ce qui se passe.
What's going on.
Il est là,
He's here,
la meuf vient de se barrer,
The girl just walked away,
ils ne sont plus que deux,
There are only two of them,
ça dure super longtemps.
It's been a long time.
Il fait,
He does,
you know what ?
you know what?
Et il sourit comme un ouf.
And he smiles like an owl.
C'est tout ce qu'il fait.
That's all he does.
Et surtout,
And most importantly,
quand elle se barre,
When she leaves,
le père,
the father,
il dit,
He says,
elle ira mieux dans une minute.
She'll be fine in a minute.
Alors que ça se voit
As you can see
qu'elle ne va pas bien
that she's not well
depuis qu'elle est née,
Since she was born,
cette dame.
This lady.
Ça se voit vraiment,
You can really see,
quoi.
What.
là,
There,
je vais voir la figure.
I'll see the face.
J'ai,
I have,
mec le fixe encore,
Man still stares at him,
la vieille dit,
the old lady says,
je veux te parler.
I want to talk to you.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
et sa meuf chiale.
And his chial girl.
Oui,
Yes,
voilà,
There you go.
c'est ça.
That's right.
Donc en fait,
So actually,
la meuf Marie chiale
the girl Marie chiale
et la mère dit,
and the mother said,
il faut que tu ailles lui parler.
I need you to go talk to him.
Donc,
So,
elle lui dit,
She tells him,
Henri,
viens,
Come,
on va parler.
We'll talk.
Elle le prend à part,
She takes it apart,
la mère.
Mother.
Elle lui demande
She asks him
s'ils ont baisé
if they fucked
avec la Marie.
with Mary.
Ce qui est toujours
What is always
un peu gênant
a little awkward
quand c'est ta meuf
When she's your girl
dont on parle,
of which we are talking,
ton ex,
your ex,
et que tu as plus de 15 ans.
And you're over 15.
C'est ça.
Right.
Donc,
So,
il y a la maman
There's Mom.
qui se dit ça,
Who says that,
c'est déjà gênant.
It's already embarrassing.
Et qu'est-ce qu'elle fait ?
What's she doing?
Elle se met à l'embrasser
She starts kissing her
dans le cou.
in the neck.
Mais genre,
But like,
en mode,
in mode,
pas en mode,
not in mode,
il n'y a pas de embrasser
There is no kissing
dans le cou,
in the neck,
c'est trop bizarre.
It's so weird.
Donc,
So,
elle l'embrasse.
She kisses her.
Après,
Then,
elle a peut-être
She may have
une attirance pour lui,
an attraction to him,
d'un coup.
Suddenly.
Mais écoute,
But listen,
tu viens de te taper
You just hit yourself.
un mini poulet.
A mini chicken.
Je viens de me taper
I just got busted.
ta fille.
Your daughter.
Est-ce que c'est bien
Is that good?
le moment ?
the moment?
Ça fait 6 ans
Six years.
que tu as cette coupe,
that you have this cup,
toi, non ?
You, right?
Ça me chauffe un peu,
It warms me up a little,
du coup.
So.
Avec cette laque-là,
With that lacquer,
l'odeur me rend
the smell makes me
un peu fofolle.
A little crazy.
Donc,
So,
c'est hyper chelou.
It's so weird.
Et elle lui parle...
And she talks to him...
Surtout pourquoi
Especially why
elle veut lui parler,
She wants to talk to him,
parce que c'est un pivot
because it's a pivot
important du film.
important part of the film.
Elle lui demande donc
She therefore asks him
est-ce qu'ils ont baisé,
Did they fuck,
mais pourquoi ?
But why?
Et après,
And then,
elle lui dit...
She says...
Je te dis ce que j'ai noté.
I'm telling you what I wrote down.
Elle dit
She says
cette créature est un bébé.
This creature is a baby.
Alors non,
So no,
en fait,
Actually,
ce qu'elle dit,
what she says,
c'est que...
It's just...
Elle dit,
She says,
pas à demi-mot,
not half-word,
à trois quarts mots,
three-quarters of a word,
qu'elle est enceinte,
that she is pregnant,
Marie.
Ouais, ok, voilà.
Yeah, okay, here we go.
Et que du coup,
And then,
il y a eu
There was
une sorte de...
Some kind of...
de moment
Time
où il y a eu
where there was
un accouchement prématuré,
premature delivery,
quoi.
What.
Ouais, ok.
Yeah, okay.
Donc là,
So here,
Henri,
il scène du nez.
Nose scene.
Le vieux dit
The old man says
le dîner va être froid.
Dinner's gonna be cold.
C'est vrai.
That's right.
Ça, c'est vrai.
C'est factuel.
It's factual.
La vieille,
Old lady,
la plus vieille,
the oldest,
clope en dormant,
sleeping bitch,
peut-être morte.
Maybe dead.
Peut-être morte.
Ça, on le saura.
We'll know that.
On le saura jamais.
We'll never know.
Marie est en train
Marie's on the train.
d'essayer de donner
trying to give
manger à un...
eat at a...
Donc,
So,
moi, j'appelais ça
I called it
un blob à la base.
A blob at the base.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Une espèce de...
Some kind of...
En fait,
Actually,
ça ressemble à un agneau
It looks like a lamb.
mort.
Dead.
Pour moi,
For me,
c'est plus...
It's more...
On dirait un bébé agneau.
Looks like a lamb baby.
Moi, je trouve que c'est...
I think it's...
Agneau,
Lamb,
ça revient souvent.
It comes back a lot.
Pour moi,
For me,
c'est plus moitié tortue,
It's not half turtle,
moitié cheval un peu.
Half horse a little.
C'est très allongé.
It's very long.
Tu sens...
You smell...
On dirait un peu Franklin
Looks like Franklin.
qui serait remis
to be handed over
à la dernière seconde
last second
d'une overdose, quoi.
An overdose.
Graphiquement,
Graphically,
il faut que vous voyez
you need to see
parce que c'est dur à expliquer.
Because it's hard to explain.
C'est terrible.
That's terrible.
C'est pas bien.
That's not good.
Il y en a des bébés moches.
There are ugly babies.
Il y en a plein.
There's plenty.
Ah non, là, on est dans un...
Oh, no, we're in a...
Là, vraiment,
There, really,
c'est le stade.
It's the stadium.
Si quelqu'un le voit
If anyone sees him
et dit
And said
« Oh là là,
"Oh there,
il vous ressemble ! »
He looks like you! »
Là, tu le frappes.
Now you hit him.
En fait,
Actually,
je comprends
I understand.
cette horreur
that horror
qu'il peut y avoir
that there may be
dans la vie
in life
qui est de...
Which is...
Parce qu'on parle toujours
Because we always talk
de la beauté,
beauty,
de l'accouchement,
childbirth,
de la beauté
Beauty
d'avoir un enfant.
to have a child.
Mais imagine
But imagine
si vraiment...
if...
Et c'est vrai,
And that's right,
ça doit exister
It must exist.
avec le postpartum et tout.
with the postpartum and everything.
Il y a un sentiment
There's a feeling
de rejet.
rejection.
Ce truc qui sort de ton corps,
That thing that comes out of your body,
ça ne m'appartient pas.
It doesn't belong to me.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Il y a un truc
There's something.
genre,
Like,
c'est pas à mon...
It's not my...
Et c'est vrai
And it's true.
que ça doit être très dur
that it must be very hard
pour les gens
for people
qui ont...
who have...
S'il y a des bébés,
If there are babies,
je sais pas,
I don't know,
même si...
Even if...
Il y a des bébés
There are babies
qui naissent
born
avec deux têtes,
with two heads,
8, 10, 25 orteils,
8, 10, 25 toes,
ils font des trucs horribles.
They do horrible things.
Si tu te dis
If you think
« Mais pourquoi... »
"But why..."
Deux têtes,
Two heads,
maintenant,
Now,
ça devient rare.
It's getting rare.
Je pense qu'on te le dit avant.
I think we told you before.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Oui, oui.
Yes, yes.
Je sais.
I know.
Ce serait bien
That would be nice.
qu'on passe ça.
Let's pass this.
À l'époque, ouais.
Back then, yeah.
Mais ça doit être
But it must be
tellement horrible
So horrible
de sortir un alien.
to take out an alien.
Déjà qu'un bébé,
Already a baby,
c'est un mini-alien,
He's a mini-alien,
c'est un mini-vieux
It's a mini-old.
avec une grosse tête.
with a big head.
C'est très bizarre, quoi.
It's very weird.
Mais c'est vrai
But it's true.
que t'as tout le temps...
That you have all the time...
En tout cas,
Anyway,
t'as souvent le regard
You often look at me.
des mères qui disent
Mothers who say
« Il est trop beau, quoi. »
"He's too beautiful. »
Des fois,
Sometimes,
nous, on a vu des bébés...
We saw babies...
Depuis le temps,
Since time,
avec Internet même,
with the Internet itself,
t'en as vu des bébés.
You've seen babies.
Tu peux dire
You can say
qu'un bébé,
a baby,
il est mieux
He's better.
qu'un autre bébé.
Just another baby.
Et des fois,
And sometimes,
il y a des bébés,
There are babies,
ils sont vraiment
They really are.
très très bas dans l'échelle.
very low in scale.
Et ils la trouvent
And they find her
quand même beau.
Still beautiful.
Il y a des meufs
There are chicks
qui font des pranks
who make pranks
incroyables sur Insta.
amazing on Insta.
Merci,
Thank you.
mon algorithme.
My algorithm.
C'est une meuf,
She's a girl,
elle a genre 30 ans.
She's like 30 years old.
Elle va voir sa maman
She's gonna see her mom.
qui a plus de 55.
which has more than 55.
Elle dit
She says
« Regarde le bébé de Jane,
"Look at Jane's baby,
il est magnifique. »
It's beautiful. »
Et le bébé,
And the baby,
il est horrible.
He's horrible.
Et après,
And then,
quand la mère dit
when the mother says
« Mais il est horrible. »
"But he's horrible. »
Elle dit
She says
« Maman,
"Mom,
on est en visio. »
We're in vision. »
Avec la mère.
With the mother.
Et donc,
And so,
à chaque fois,
each time,
la vieille fait
the old fact
« Oh, he's cute. »
"Oh, he's cute. »
Elle change en une seconde.
She changes in a second.
Et les gens
And people
le font.
Do it.
Enfin,
Finally,
il y a une compile de ça.
There's a compilation of that.
Des vieilles
Old
qui passent de
that pass from
horrible
Horrible
à
to
et elles essaient
and they try
de se rattraper.
to make up for it.
C'est si drôle.
It's so funny.
Je connais rien
I don't know anything.
de plus drôle
funniest
de cette TV.
This TV.
Là,
There,
pour le coup,
for the coup,
c'est vraiment
It really is.
une sale van à faire.
A dirty van to do.
Si on montre
If we show
ce bébé-là
that baby
dans le film
in the movie
à quelqu'un
to someone
et qui a la mère
and has the mother
en visio,
in visio,
on ne peut pas dire…
We can't say...
Moi,
Me,
je dirais la même chose.
I'd say the same thing.
Je dirais non,
I'd say no,
vraiment,
Really,
je suis désolé.
I'm sorry.
Là,
There,
il faut aller voir quelqu'un.
We have to go see someone.
Il faut aller voir
We have to go see
un exercice déjà.
an exercise already.
Ah,
mais moi,
But me,
je crois ça.
I think so.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
il faut que quelqu'un le fasse.
Someone has to.
C'est par en patate direct.
It's a direct potato.
Tu, carrément ?
You, totally?
Tout de suite.
Right away.
Bah,
Well,
attends,
Wait,
mais non.
But no.
Non,
No,
non,
on n'a pas le temps
We don't have time.
de réfléchir.
to think.
Et après,
And then,
ils vont dire,
They're gonna say,
c'était mon cas.
I did.
J'ai dit,
I said,
bon,
All right,
écoutez,
Look,
vous vouliez le faire.
You wanted to do it.
Je ne voulais pas le faire
I didn't want to do it.
et je le trouvais sublime.
and I thought it was sublime.
Impossible,
impossible.
Impossible.
Il ne faut pas réfléchir.
Don't think.
Vous n'êtes pas dans ma tête,
You're not in my head,
monsieur.
Sir.
Comme un chihuahua,
Like a chihuahua,
t'écrases d'un coup.
You crash at once.
Non,
No,
non,
t'es fou.
You're crazy.
Je pense que la réaction,
I think the reaction,
c'est merci,
Thank you.
merci énormément.
Thank you very much.
Je n'osais jamais le faire.
I never dared.
Et d'ailleurs,
And besides,
si vous avez des bébés moches
if you have ugly babies
et que c'est dur pour vous
and it's hard for you
de les tuer,
to kill them,
Urbain peut s'en occuper
Urban can handle it
sans aucun souci.
No worries.
J'ai vu en plus,
I saw more,
pour le coup,
for the coup,
il a acheté des Creepers.
He bought Creepers.
Pour ceux qui voient ce que c'est,
For those who see what it is,
c'est des anciennes chaussures
They're old shoes.
avec des semelles très hautes.
with very high soles.
Et c'est vraiment dédié
And it's really dedicated
à cet effet.
to this end.
Non,
No,
non,
en plus,
in addition,
je me suis déjà entraîné
I've already practiced
sur des bébés juste à peine moches.
on barely ugly babies.
Oui,
Yes,
moi,
Me,
j'avais vu déjà tes tests,
I've already seen your tests,
là,
There,
c'est convaincant.
That's convincing.
Alors,
So,
je ne suis pas le roi
I'm not the king
de la baby shower.
Baby shower.
C'est vrai qu'on ne m'invite plus.
It's true I'm not invited anymore.
Non,
No,
non,
c'est vrai.
That's right.
Parce que maintenant,
Because now,
les gens commencent à se passer le mot.
People are starting to pass the word.
Mais,
But,
les premières fois,
the first times,
tu marquais.
You were marking.
Mais c'est comme Lynch,
But it's like Lynch,
parce que,
because,
bien sûr,
Of course,
ce n'est pas pour tout le monde
It's not for everyone.
le fait que j'écrase les bébés.
The fact that I crush babies.
Ah non,
Oh, no, no.
non.
No.
Mais le mot a commencé à tourner
But the word started to turn
dans la communauté des gens
in the community of people
qui n'aiment pas leur bébé.
who don't like their baby.
Bien sûr.
Sure.
Comme Mel Brooks.
Like Mel Brooks.
Là,
There,
ça commence à monter.
It's starting to rise.
Et dans cette commu,
And in this comm,
je deviens important.
I'm getting important.
C'est ce que tu disais au début,
That's what you said at first,
c'est mieux d'avoir une niche,
It's better to have a niche,
mais fidèle,
but faithful,
que de vouloir faire
what to do
comme le tout venant.
Like everything coming.
Et là,
And there,
pour le coup,
for the coup,
tu vas voir.
You'll see.
Le bouche à oreille,
Word of mouth,
à mon avis.
I think so.
Ah ben ça,
Well,
il y en a plein.
There's plenty.
Des gens,
People,
je me contente d'acheter un cadeau au bébé,
I'm just buying a present from the baby,
de manger un bout de gâteau
eating a piece of cake
et de partir.
and leave.
Non.
No.
Alors que,
While,
bien sûr,
Of course,
quand on innove un peu
When you innovate a little
et qu'on tue le nourrisson.
And kill the infant.
Ben oui.
Yeah.
Là,
There,
au moins,
at least,
il se passe quelque chose.
Something's going on.
C'est marquant.
That's significant.
Et même,
And even,
je vais te dire,
I'll tell you,
si ton deuxième spectacle,
If your second show,
il marche un peu moins que le premier et tout,
It works a little less than the first and everything,
ça ne ferait vraiment pas beaucoup marcher.
That wouldn't really work.
Bon,
All right,
alors du coup,
So then,
ça devrait quand même être au moins aussi bien.
It should still be at least as good.
Mais si jamais à un moment,
But if at any time,
tu te dis,
You're thinking,
bon,
All right,
j'ai peut-être fait le tour des blagues,
Maybe I went around the jokes,
ta porte de sortie,
your exit door,
elle est toute trouvée.
It's all found.
Ou les deux en même temps.
Or both at the same time.
Ou tu peux faire,
Or you can do,
alors là,
So there,
ça va te demander beaucoup de taf,
It's gonna take a lot of work,
les deux.
Both.
Non,
No,
mais on fait d'abord écrasage de bébé
But first we're crushing babies.
et après,
and then,
on se marre,
We're laughing.
non ?
No?
Mais ce que je veux dire,
But what I mean,
c'est que ça se trouve,
It turns out,
les demandes,
applications,
elles vont affluer de partout en France.
They will flow from all over France.
Ils te payent le trajet,
They're paying you the ride,
les défraiements,
the relief,
tout ça.
All this.
Mais le temps où tu es à Dunkerque
But the time you're in Dunkirk
en train d'écraser un bébé moche,
crushing a ugly baby,
t'es pas en train de faire du Comédie Club
You're not doing Comedy Club.
et de bosser ton spectacle.
And work on your show.
C'est dur d'allier les deux,
It's hard to combine the two,
je trouve.
I think so.
Ouais, ouais.
Yeah, yeah.
Écoute,
Look,
on fait...
We do...
Et t'as une meuf en plus.
And you got another girl.
Enfin,
Finally,
je veux dire,
I mean,
ça fait beaucoup.
That's a lot.
On fait les deux carrières en parallèle
We do both careers in parallel
et puis on voit ce qu'il prend.
And then we see what he's taking.
Oui, voilà,
Yeah, that's it.
ce qu'il prend le mieux.
What he takes best.
Donc,
So,
voilà.
There.
Mais c'est vrai qu'il est ignoble,
But it's true that he's awful,
ce bébé.
That baby.
Il est pas top.
He's not great.
Voilà.
There.
On dirait un agneau mourant
It looks like a dying lamb.
qui veut pas se nourrir.
Who doesn't want to eat.
Voilà.
There.
C'est ce que j'avais noté.
That's what I wrote.
Ça marche aussi.
It works, too.
Henri va à la boîte aux lettres
Henri goes to the mailbox
chercher une boîte.
Get a box.
Il y a une bague dedans.
There's a ring in it.
Donc ça,
So this,
c'est ce moment horrible
It's this horrible moment.
dans les années 50-70.
in the 1950s and 1970s.
On disait,
They said,
ah,
la meuf derrière la buique,
the girl behind the buic,
là,
There,
tu l'as mis enceinte ?
Did you get her pregnant?
Bah,
Well,
c'est ta femme maintenant.
She's your wife now.
Parce qu'il fallait légitimer le truc
Because you had to legitimize the thing.
alors qu'elle était enceinte
while pregnant
jusqu'aux dents.
To the teeth.
Enfin,
Finally,
bon,
All right,
voilà,
There you go.
tous connaissent comme ça.
Everyone knows like that.
Marie est avec le truc horrible
Marie's with the horrible thing.
et le regarde genre,
And look at him like,
c'est quoi ce treur ?
What the hell is that?
On sent qu'elle déteste le machin.
You feel she hates the thing.
Bah,
Well,
elle est pas fan,
She's not a fan,
ouais.
Yeah.
Même si c'est de elle.
Even if it's from her.
Mais c'est très dur.
But it's very hard.
Des fois,
Sometimes,
on fait des dessins
drawing
et on les trouve ratés.
And we find them missed.
Bon,
All right,
bah là,
Well,
le dessin,
drawing,
il est en 3D
It's in 3D
et il pleure beaucoup.
And he's crying a lot.
Très dur.
Very hard.
Henri rentre voir sa meuf
Henry goes back to his girl
avec le truc,
with the thing,
il sourit,
He smiles,
mais sur le lit,
but on the bed,
il se met sur le lit
He gets on the bed.
à plat ventre
flat stomach
et il dit rien.
And he doesn't say anything.
C'est le sourire gêné.
It's the embarrassed smile.
Tu sens que le gars,
You feel like the guy,
là,
There,
il va prendre ses responsabilités.
He'll take responsibility.
Le papa,
Dad,
on lui dit,
We tell him,
bon,
All right,
bah maintenant,
Well, now,
ta vie a changé.
Your life has changed.
On peut le faire.
We can do it.
Mais on voit sur son visage
But you see on his face
que t'étais déjà pas bien heureux.
You were not happy already.
Non.
No.
Que...
That...
Bon,
All right,
c'est ça le truc.
That's the thing.
On n'a pas la vision
We don't have the vision
de Henri avait une vie super
Henry had a great life
et sa vie est niquée.
And his life is fucked up.
Sa vie,
His life,
c'était de la merde
It was shit.
et là,
and there,
ça devient de la surmerde.
It's getting overwhelming.
Mais bon.
But good.
Il n'y a même pas un nœud pape autour.
There's not even a pope knot around.
Il n'y a pas de ruban.
There's no ribbon.
C'est vraiment...
It's really...
Là,
There,
on l'étale maintenant
We're spreading it now.
sur son visage juste.
on his right face.
Tu dis,
You're saying,
ah,
d'accord.
Okay.
J'avais l'odeur déjà,
I had the smell already,
mais maintenant,
But now,
au moins,
at least,
j'ai la texture sur ma peau.
I have texture on my skin.
C'est pas mal.
It's not bad.
Lui demande s'il y a du courrier.
Ask him if there's any mail.
Non,
No,
il n'y a pas de courrier.
There's no mail.
Beaucoup de bruit de vent dehors.
A lot of wind noise outside.
Il dorme.
He's sleeping.
Henri sort la bague
Henri pulls out the ring
et il la met dans un petit meuble.
And he puts it in a small piece of furniture.
un coup d'épaule,
One shoulder stroke,
mon vieux.
Dude.
Il a compris.
He got it.
On a tous tenté ce genre de rapprocher
We've all tried this kind of rapprochement.
en couple
in couple
ou presque en couple.
or almost as a couple.
Normalement,
Normally,
si on n'est pas un gars bizarre
If we're not a weird guy
et la liste est très longue,
and the list is very long,
normalement,
normally,
quand on prend un raffut comme ça
When you take a raffut like that
de John Alomou dans le lit,
John Alomou in bed,
on se dit,
We're thinking,
peut-être,
Maybe,
c'est pas le moment.
This is not the time.
Peut-être,
Maybe,
je vais faire la sieste.
I'll take a nap.
Et là,
And there,
Henri,
malgré 79,
despite 79,
c'est un gars
He's a guy.
qui comprend très bien
which understands very well
que non,
that no,
non,
No,
ça ne va pas ce soir.
It's not okay tonight.
Ce n'est pas le moment.
This is not the time.
Et clairement,
And clearly,
je pense qu'elle n'aura plus jamais
I don't think she'll ever get it again.
envie de faire l'amour
Want to make love
si faire l'amour conduit.
if making love leads.
Parce qu'en plus,
Because besides,
elle doit détester Henri
She must hate Henri.
parce que...
Because...
Tout vient de lui,
Everything comes from him,
quelque part.
somewhere.
Il est moitié agneau,
He's half lamb,
quoi.
What.
Peut-être,
Maybe,
c'est même toute sa faute.
It's all her fault.
En tout cas,
Anyway,
elle se dit...
She thinks...
Après,
Then,
elle a des parents chelous,
She's got crazy parents,
quand même.
Still.
Je pense que les deux ADN
I think the two DNAs
ont été mêlés
have been involved
pour créer cette belle petite chose.
to create this beautiful little thing.
C'est terrible
It's terrible.
de revouloir à l'autre.
I'm going back to the other one.
Tu dois dire...
You have to say...
Après,
Then,
en plus,
in addition,
tu ne pouvais pas faire
You couldn't do it.
d'analyse à l'époque.
analysis at the time.
Tu ne pouvais pas dire,
You couldn't say,
ah,
tu vois,
See,
c'est toi.
It's you.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
alors là,
So there,
moi,
Me,
j'aurais été prêt.
I would have been ready.
Par contre,
However,
là,
There,
moi,
Me,
je suis Henri,
I'm Henri,
je vais faire un test
I'll take a test.
de paternité.
of paternity.
C'est exactement
That's exactly it.
ce que j'allais te dire.
What I was going to tell you.
Si tu me disais
If you told me
que ça n'existe pas,
That it doesn't exist,
je disais que j'étais prêt
I said I was ready.
à prendre trois éprouvettes.
take three test pieces.
Je vais être sûr sûr,
I'll be sure,
quand même.
Still.
Parce que sinon,
Because otherwise,
mes bagages,
My luggage,
ils sont déjà prêts.
They're already ready.
Je suis loin déjà.
I'm far away already.
Et d'ailleurs,
And besides,
vu les statistiques de père
having regard to father's statistics
qui ne sont pas le père,
who are not the father,
j'ai envie de dire,
I want to say,
mesdames,
Ladies,
on arrête de se vexer
We stop offending each other.
et on rend
and we give back
le test de paternité
paternity test
obligatoire.
compulsory.
Ah bah oui,
Oh, yeah.
si vous voulez.
If you like.
Et puis c'est tout,
And then that's it,
parce que les stats
because stats
sont ahurissantes.
Are amazing.
C'est vrai ?
Really?
Mais ahurissantes.
But amazing.
Je ne savais pas ça.
I didn't know that.
À un moment,
At some point,
je ne comprends pas
I don't understand.
pourquoi ce n'est pas
Why is it not
genre juste.
Like fair.
Ah,
c'est vous le père ?
Are you the father?
Déjà,
Already,
pourquoi on croit les gens ?
Why do we believe people?
En fait,
Actually,
le test de paternité
paternity test
devrait être obligatoire.
should be mandatory.
Je ne pense pas
I don't think so.
qu'il y ait des milliers
that there are thousands
d'hommes dans la rue
men on the street
qui courent en mode
running in mode
si,
Yes,
c'est moi le daron.
I'm the daron.
Mais en vrai,
But actually,
on devrait juste être sûr
We should just be sure.
en tant que société
as a company
que les pères,
the fathers,
c'est les pères.
It's the fathers.
Moi,
Me,
je suis OK.
I'm okay.
Mais il y a,
But there's,
c'est Eddie Murphy
It's Eddie Murphy.
qui avait un moment
who had a moment
Melcy,
Melcy ou Melby
Melcy or Melby
de The Spice Girls.
The Spice Girls.
La métisse.
Metis.
Elle avait dit,
She said,
bah en fait,
Well, actually,
t'es le père de mon enfant.
You're my child's father.
Il a fait,
He did,
non.
No.
Il avait dit,
He said,
bah si,
Well, yes,
t'es le père de mon enfant.
You're my child's father.
Bah non.
Well, no.
Bah ouais,
Yeah,
on fait un test de paternité.
We're doing a paternity test.
Il a dit,
He said,
bah alors quand tu veux.
Well, then whenever you want.
Bon,
All right,
c'est le père de son enfant.
He's her child's father.
Il a dit,
He said,
bon,
All right,
je suis le père de...
I'm the father of...
Mais vraiment,
But really,
il était sûr sûr quoi.
He was sure what.
Il a juste dit,
He just said,
ok,
Okay,
bah bon,
Well,
bah je vais m'en occuper alors.
Well, I'll take care of it then.
Mais après,
But then,
comment tu peux être sûr sûr
how you can be sure
si t'as joué
if you played
à l'intérieur de la meuf ?
inside the girl?
Mais peut-être qu'il sait.
But maybe he knows.
Ça se trouve,
I guess so.
il avait mis une podcast.
He put on a podcast.
Il avait dit,
He said,
mais je sais vérifier.
But I know how to check.
Enfin,
Finally,
je ne sais.
I don't know.
Et peut-être,
And maybe,
bah non,
Well, no,
c'est tout.
That's all.
Pas de chat.
No cat.
Petite ou beaucoup de chat.
Small or a lot of cat.
Mais on ne sait pas.
But we don't know.
Trop de chat.
Too much cat.
Trop de chat peut-être.
Too much cat maybe.
Non,
No,
mais trop à l'intérieur de la chat.
But too much inside the cat.
Ah peut-être.
Maybe.
C'est là qu'on fait les bébés,
That's where we make babies,
je crois.
I think so.
Ou peut-être que vraiment,
Or maybe really,
Eddie Murphy,
jusqu'à encore pas longtemps,
Until not long,
ils se disaient,
They said,
mais c'est pas parce que le sperme
But it's not because the sperm
rentre à l'intérieur du vagin
Go inside the vagina
que ça produit un enfant.
Make a child.
Je crois qu'il y a beaucoup
I think there's a lot
de personnes américaines,
American people,
célèbres et jeunes
famous and young
qui ne comprennent pas ce concept.
who do not understand this concept.
Encore en 2025.
Still in 2025.
J'en parlais dans le podcast
I was talking about it in the podcast.
sur la NBA.
on the NBA.
Il y a Anthony Edwards,
There's Anthony Edwards,
il joue à Timberwolves
he plays Timberwolves
avec Rudy Gobert.
With Rudy Gobert.
Il a,
He has,
alors qu'il a 23 piges.
He's got 23 piges.
Non,
No,
deux.
Two.
Quatre.
Four.
De quatre meufs différentes.
Four different girls.
Rudy.
Non,
No,
Anthony.
Oui.
Yes.
Ben alors ?
Well?
Alors lui.
Then him.
Mais surtout,
But most importantly,
tout ce qui est préservatif,
everything that's condom,
alors on en fait quoi ?
So what do we do with it?
Ben.
La flemme un peu ?
A bit of a flum?
Quand on sait ce que ça va lui coûter,
When we know what it's gonna cost him,
parce qu'il ne va pas être présent
'Cause he's not gonna be here.
pour les quatre gamins,
for the four kids,
donc ça va juste être...
So it's just gonna be...
Mais il l'a déjà dit.
But he already said it.
Je ne reconnais pas les gamins.
I don't recognize kids.
Les gamins.
Kids.
Je paye.
I'm paying.
Je paye,
I pay,
je suis tranquille.
I'm quiet.
Il va lui falloir un sacré contrat.
He'll need a hell of a contract.
Il va falloir en mettre des trois points.
We're gonna have to put in three points.
Après,
Then,
en NBA,
in NBA,
ça va,
It's okay,
tu ne parles pas trop mal normalement.
You don't talk too bad normally.
Mais attends,
But wait,
mais aux Etats-Unis,
But in the United States,
ça ne rigole pas du tout.
It's not funny at all.
C'est indexé sur ton salaire.
It's indexed to your salary.
Mais il est un peu teubé, là.
But he's a little tedious right now.
Ah non,
Oh, no, no.
mais là,
But here,
qu'est-ce que...
What the...
À son âge,
At her age,
4 de 4 différents.
Four of four different.
Mais qu'est-ce qu'il fait ?
What's he doing?
Non,
No,
mais surtout que...
But above all...
Mais surtout,
But most importantly,
il a du bol juste d'avoir des gosses
He's just got a lot of kids.
et pas d'avoir chopé la bléno ou pire.
and not to have caught the wheat or worse.
Mais les meufs doivent se faire tourner le mot
But the chicks have to turn the word
parce que là,
because there,
c'est tranquille.
It's quiet.
C'est une retraite.
It's a retreat.
Non,
No,
mais c'est une retraite.
But it's a retirement.
Après,
Then,
tu vois le truc calculé des meufs et tout.
You see the calculated girl thing and everything.
Mais non,
But no,
mais maintenant...
But now...
Il est débit,
It's flow rate,
il veut jamais mettre de capote.
He never wants to wear a condom.
À la base,
At the base,
non.
No.
Au bout de quatre fois,
After four times,
moi,
Me,
je suis une meuf bonne,
I'm a good girl,
je suis dans la merde.
I'm in trouble.
Je vais le voir.
I'll see him.
Attends,
Wait.
mais t'imagines.
But you can imagine.
C'est fin de carrière.
It's end of career.
Il y a un million qui tombe tous les mois.
There's a million that falls every month.
Les couches,
The diapers,
c'est cher.
It's expensive.
Il n'y a pas un million qui tombe tous les mois.
There's not a million that falls every month.
Mais ça ne va pas être loin.
But it won't be far.
Mais t'es fou,
But you're crazy,
toi.
You.
Non,
No,
mais oui,
But yes,
ce n'est pas un million tous les mois.
It's not a million every month.
Mais on met 600 000 dollars tous les mois.
But we pay $600,000 every month.
C'est impossible.
That's impossible.
Un mec,
A guy,
c'est pas mal.
It's not bad.
Ben oui.
Yeah.
C'est pas mal.
It's not bad.
Elle ne dort pas étant à rapprocher.
She doesn't sleep being close.
Voilà.
There.
Elle n'en peut plus des cris
She can't scream anymore.
et elle lui crie de la fermer.
And she yells at her to shut up.
dit au bébé,
Tell the baby,
vas-tu bien fermer ta gueule ?
Will you shut the fuck up?
Est-ce qu'il ne marche ?
Does it work?
Jamais.
Never.
Surtout que je ne pense pas
Especially since I don't think
qu'il parle l'humain
that he speaks the human
et qu'il le comprenne,
and understand it,
du coup,
So,
le bébé.
The baby.
Elle pleure,
She's crying,
elle le...
She...
Et elle se casse.
And she's breaking up.
Elle dit qu'elle veut dormir.
She says she wants to sleep.
Elle tire le lit pour le rapprocher
She pulls the bed to bring him closer
et prendre sa valise.
and take his suitcase.
Scène très marrante.
Very funny scene.
Parce que c'est vraiment
Because it really is.
un plan fixe d'elle,
a fixed plan of it,
face cam,
Cam face,
en train d'essayer de bouger
trying to move
un truc sous le lit.
Something under the bed.
Ça dure vraiment
It really lasts.
30 secondes.
30 seconds.
Et au début,
And at first,
tu ne comprends pas ce qu'elle fait.
You don't understand what she's doing.
Tu dis,
You're saying,
qu'est-ce qu'elle fait ?
What's she doing?
On dirait qu'elle
Looks like she's
se masturbe presque avec le lit.
masturbates almost with the bed.
Non, en fait,
No, actually,
elle voulait juste
She just wanted to
prendre sa valise.
Take his suitcase.
Mais comme elle le matait
But as she saw it
tout du long,
all along,
c'est une scène très rigolote.
It's a very funny scene.
Et moi,
And me,
je trouve que ça traduit bien
I think it translates well.
l'humour de Lynch.
Lynch's humor.
C'est une scène très slapstick.
It's a very slapstick scene.
Et il y a des scènes
And there are scenes
tellement abusées dans le film
so abused in the movie
qu'elles deviennent
that they become
vraiment drôles.
Really funny.
Et ce n'est pas malgré lui.
And it's not in spite of him.
Il sait très bien
He knows very well.
ce qu'il fait, Lynch,
what he does, Lynch,
quand il fait ça.
When he does that.
Ah oui, oui.
Oh, yes, yes.
C'est très marrant.
It's very funny.
Elle se casse.
She's breaking up.
Voilà.
There.
On envoie un plan
Sending a plan
sur une voisine
on a neighbor
qui est magnifique.
which is beautiful.
Donc, un plan sur la voisine.
So, a plan on the neighbor.
Là, l'agneau
There the lamb
ferme sa gueule.
Shut the fuck up.
Elle est pas mal,
She's not bad.
il faut dire.
I must say.
Ça se trouve,
I guess so.
il dit,
He says,
elle est pas mal,
She's not bad,
cette humaine.
This human.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Il lui prend sa température,
He's taking his temperature,
mais,
but,
voilà ce que j'avais noté,
That's what I noted,
mais quelle est
but what is
la température normale
normal temperature
de ça ?
Of this?
C'est pour ça
That's why.
que quand il regarde
that when he looks
le thermomètre
thermometer
et qu'on ne voit pas,
and we don't see,
ça se trouve,
It turns out,
il se dit juste,
He just says,
ça a écrit deux.
It wrote two.
Mais est-ce que deux,
But do two,
c'est bien pour lui ?
Is that good for him?
C'est ça.
Right.
Pour un humain,
For a human,
on sait.
We know.
Mais là,
But now,
il y aurait 100 000 ou 4.
There would be 100,000 or four.
Ouais,
Yeah,
tu te dis,
You're thinking,
à mon avis,
In my opinion,
pour l'instant,
For now,
ça va, quoi.
It's okay.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
on voit le bas du truc
We see the bottom of the thing.
et on se rend compte
and we realize
qu'en dessous
below
de cette tête d'agneau,
of this lamb's head,
en fait,
Actually,
le corps est énorme.
The body is huge.
Oui,
Yes,
il est effectivement
it is actually
et en plus,
and in addition,
le corps,
body,
il n'est pas,
He's not,
il n'y a pas forcément
There's not necessarily
de brow jump,
brow jump,
quoi.
What.
C'est une espèce
It's a species
de forme en mitouflé
Of a shape of mitufled
dans des bandages.
In bandages.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Donc,
So,
on ne sait pas trop.
We don't know too much.
Non,
No,
mais parce qu'on ne le voyait
but because we didn't see him
que cette tête horrible
than that horrible head
en train de faire
Making
crever là.
Die there.
Mais on n'avait pas vu
But we didn't see
qu'en fait,
that in fact,
c'est encore pire que ça.
It's even worse than that.
En dessous,
Below,
c'est ignoble.
It's disgusting.
Le truc a des boutons
The thing has buttons.
plein la gueule.
Just fill your mouth.
Maintenant,
Now,
il a l'air trop malade.
He looks too sick.
C'est horrible.
That's horrible.
Il a dû choper la varicelle
He must have caught the chickenpox.
ou la peste bubonique,
bubonic plague,
mais en tout cas,
But in any case,
c'est vraiment visuellement,
It's really visual,
tu n'as pas envie
You don't want to.
de lui faire la bise.
To kiss him.
Terrible.
On a connu tous,
We all met,
et même on a connu
and even we knew
parce qu'on en a fait partie,
Because we were part of it,
des gens qui avaient
people who had
pendant l'adolescence,
during adolescence,
par exemple,
for example,
vraiment beaucoup de problèmes.
a lot of problems.
Eh bien,
Well,
j'aurais préféré vraiment
I really wish I had.
habiter sur leur visage
living on their faces
que de faire un contact
to make contact
avec son bébé.
with her baby.
Il a la peste,
He has the plague,
il a la varicelle.
He's got chickenpox.
Ça ne va pas du tout fort.
It's not going very well.
Et c'est la fin de ma partie,
And this is the end of my game,
45 minutes,
on est pile à la moitié du film.
We're halfway through the movie.
Je coupe parce que comme ça,
I cut because like that,
on ferait un sauvegarder.
We'd do a backup.
En plus,
Plus,
il n'y a plus de pile.
There's no battery left.
Allez.
Come on.
On se prépare pour la deuxième partie.
We're getting ready for the second part.
Donc oui,
So yes,
thermomètre,
thermometer,
on se demande ce qui se passe.
We wonder what's going on.
D'ailleurs,
Besides,
thermomètre à l'ancienne,
Old-fashioned thermometer,
ce n'est pas sous le bras,
It's not under the arm,
enfin sous le moignon,
finally under the stump,
on ne sait pas trop ce que c'est.
We don't know what it is.
Dans la bouche.
In the mouth.
C'est vraiment dans la bouche.
It's really in the mouth.
Oui, parce que là,
Yes, because here,
le cul,
the ass,
on ne l'a pas trouvé.
We didn't find him.
Non, non, non.
No, no, no.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
même s'il l'avait trouvé,
Even if he had found it,
il aurait dit,
He would have said,
tu sais quoi,
You know what,
on va tester juste par tout ce qui est buccal,
We're just gonna test everything that's oral,
ce sera moins compliqué.
It'll be less complicated.
Et en vrai,
And actually,
sur ce blob,
on this blob,
la différence entre le cul et la bouche,
the difference between the ass and the mouth,
n'est pas...
is not...
Non, ce n'est pas flag flag.
No, it's not flag flag.
Je pense que ça...
I think this...
En fait,
Actually,
vraiment,
Really,
s'il le pose sur une table
if he puts it on a table
et qu'on le fait le tourner comme une bouteille,
And turn it like a bottle,
tu dis où est le bas,
You say where the bottom is,
où est le haut,
where is the top,
je pense que tu fais,
I think you do,
choisis-toi.
Choose yourself.
Donc,
So,
il a l'air d'aller à peu près bien,
He looks pretty good,
en tout cas,
in any case,
malgré le fait qu'il pleure beaucoup
despite the fact that he is crying a lot
et qu'il ait une tête chelou.
And he's got a weird face.
Mais le temps que Henri se retourne,
But by the time Henri turns around,
en fait,
Actually,
donc,
So,
on se retrouve avec ce bébé-là
We're meeting with that baby.
qui est très...
Which is very...
graphiquement,
graphically,
on va dire,
Let's say,
comme on avait dit tout à l'heure,
Like we said earlier,
très constellé,
very constellated,
pustélisé,
pustelised,
bubonisé,
bubonized,
tout ce que vous voulez.
Anything you want.
Et le père,
And the father,
en conclut,
concludes,
à voix haute,
out loud,
il dit vraiment,
He really says,
ah,
t'es malade.
You're sick.
C'est vrai que là,
It's true that there,
on comprend qu'Henri,
We understand that Henri,
il est passé à ça d'une carrière de médecin,
He went to that from a doctor's career,
du coup,
So,
parce que vraiment,
because really,
il a eu le flair.
He got the flair.
L'instinct du père.
Father's instinct.
Vraiment.
Really.
Tu vois,
See,
on dit qu'il n'y a que l'instinct maternel,
They say there's only maternal instinct,
mais regarde l'instinct maternel,
But look at the maternal instinct,
à quel point ça change des vies.
How much it changes lives.
Moi,
Me,
j'ai un pote,
I have a friend,
il jouait avec son gamin,
He was playing with his kid,
comme ça,
Like this,
et genre,
and gender,
tu sais,
You know,
non,
No,
mais au-dessus de lui,
but above him,
tu sais,
You know,
à le faire tomber.
to bring him down.
À le faire tomber,
To bring him down,
c'est chouard.
That's sweet.
à le faire tomber,
to bring him down,
mais tu sais,
But you know,
à le porter au-dessus de sa tête,
to carry it above his head,
à le rattraper au dernier moment,
catch him at the last moment,
il disait des trucs,
He said things,
mais moi,
But me,
il me s'est trop flippé avec le gamin.
He freaked me out with the kid.
Et je regarde ma pote,
And I'm looking at my buddy,
sa meuf,
her girl,
qui est...
Which is...
Je dis,
I say,
mais t'as pas...
But you didn't...
Et là,
And there,
il fait n'importe quoi.
He does anything.
Mais non,
But no,
tu connais pas les papas,
You don't know dads,
ils ont l'instinct.
They have instinct.
Elle était en mode
She was in fashion.
100%.
Ce bébé est mort depuis.
This baby has been dead ever since.
Oui, bien sûr.
Yes, of course.
Non, non, non,
No, no, no,
il ne s'est rien passé.
Nothing happened.
Mais j'ai halluciné.
But I hallucinated.
Moi,
Me,
j'étais là,
I was there,
en mode,
in mode,
si c'était mon enfant
if it was my child
et que je voyais quelqu'un faire ça,
and I saw someone do that,
c'est pas possible,
It's not possible,
en fait.
Actually.
Moi,
Me,
je me souviens
I remember.
d'un oncle à moi.
From an uncle to me.
J'étais petit,
I was little,
je devais avoir 5 ans
I was supposed to be five.
et il aimait bien
and he liked it.
parce que ça le faisait rigoler.
Because it made him laugh.
J'ai peur de cette histoire.
I'm afraid of this story.
Non, non, non,
No, no, no,
ça ne s'affirme pas.
It doesn't stand out.
Non, non,
No, no,
c'est pas aussi grave
It's not that bad.
que ce que vous pensez.
What you think.
En fait,
Actually,
on était au deuxième étage.
We were on the second floor.
Moi,
Me,
je vivais chez mes grands-parents
I lived with my grandparents
et il aimait bien me prendre
And he liked to take me
et me mettre,
and put me on,
tu vois,
See,
le balcon
the balcony
et il me mettait dans le vide.
And he put me in a vacuum.
Il me mettait dans le vide.
He put me in a vacuum.
Michael Jackson ?
Michael Jackson?
Non,
No,
mais j'étais dans le vide
but I was in a vacuum
comme ça,
Like this,
il était là.
He was there.
Ah,
t'as vu ?
Did you see?
Et moi,
And me,
j'étais là.
I was there.
Ouais,
Yeah,
ouais.
Yeah.
Et du coup,
And so,
ça me,
That's me,
juste,
Right,
j'étais tétanisé
I was tetanized
en disant
saying
je vais faire le moins
I'll do the least.
de mouvements possible
possible movements
parce qu'il suffit
because it's enough
qu'il y ait un faux mouvement
that there is a false movement
et je suis au sol,
and I am on the ground,
quoi.
What.
Mais il n'y a rien de marrant.
But there's nothing funny.
Ben non.
No.
Parce qu'en fait,
Because actually,
la seule blague,
the only joke,
c'est pas,
It's not,
non.
No.
Il y a un risque quand même.
There's still a risk.
Ben,
Well,
c'est la mort.
It's death.
Non,
No,
mais il y a la glissade,
but there's the slide,
il y a les mains moites,
There's sweaty hands,
il y a tout ce que tu veux
There's everything you want
comme risque.
as a risk.
Mais c'est fou.
But it's crazy.
Ben ouais,
Yeah,
ouais.
Yeah.
Et j'ai un souvenir de,
And I have a memory of,
bon,
All right,
ils étaient là,
They were there,
ah,
t'es con,
You're stupid,
arrête.
Stop.
Moi,
Me,
j'étais là,
I was there,
ouais,
Yeah,
il est con,
He's stupid,
arrête,
Stop,
s'il te plaît,
Please,
maintenant.
Now.
Ouais,
Yeah,
ouais,
c'était assez bizarre.
It was kind of weird.
Bon,
All right,
coup de bol,
bowling,
je suis là pour en parler,
I'm here to talk about it,
donc ça reste juste une anecdote.
So that's just an anecdote.
Bon,
All right,
bref.
Anyway.
Il y a une anecdote
There's an anecdote.
qui explique beaucoup.
which explains a lot.
Non,
No,
et en plus,
and in addition,
j'ai même pas peur du vide,
I'm not even afraid of emptiness,
tu vois,
See,
ça m'a même pas trop mat,
It didn't even matter too much,
donc j'ai de la chance.
So I'm lucky.
Mais du coup,
But then,
t'aurais préféré le Céus ou pas ?
Would you have preferred the Ceus or not?
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
clairement.
Clearly.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
ben ouais,
Yeah,
ben ça m'aurait fait moins flipper en plus.
Well, that would've made me less freaked out.
J'aurais eu d'autres types de problèmes,
I would have had other types of problems,
mais au moins.
But at least.
Waouh.
Wow.
Puis tu sais quoi,
Then you know what,
ça se trouve être gay,
It turns out to be gay,
c'est moins de problèmes.
It's less trouble.
Mais je vois pas,
But I don't see,
en quoi,
how,
je vois pas les gens dans les années 70,
I don't see people in the '70s,
enfin 80 pardon.
Finally 80 pardons.
Ben ouais,
Yeah,
c'est d'autres mentalités.
It's other mentalities.
Mais après,
But then,
ils ont peut-être connu des guerres,
They may have known wars,
tu vois,
See,
non,
No,
c'est pas...
It's not...
Pour eux,
For them,
ce qu'ils appellent l'humour,
What they call humor,
pour nous,
for us,
c'est un trauma,
It's a trauma,
mais c'est pas grave,
But it's okay,
tu vois,
See,
c'est la vie.
It's life.
L'affaire Outro,
The Outro case,
ça se trouve,
It turns out,
il y a 100 ans,
100 years ago,
on aurait dit,
It looked like,
ouais,
Yeah,
ben ça c'est un mercredi,
Well, this is a Wednesday,
ça,
This,
c'est un truc tranquille.
It's a quiet thing.
Prenez pas la tête pour ça.
Don't think about it.
Donc,
So,
donc oui,
So yes,
il est bien malade.
He's sick.
Alors,
So,
qu'est-ce qu'il fait
What's he doing?
avec son instinct de père
with his father instinct
qu'on a décrit ?
What did we describe?
Eh ben,
Well,
il fait chauffer de l'eau
He heats water.
dans une sorte de récipient,
in a kind of container,
un petit bouilloire,
A little kettle,
mais c'est pas vraiment une bouilloire,
But it's not really a kettle,
c'est un récipient chelou,
It's a crappy container,
et pour en faire une sorte
and to make it a kind
de ce que je comprends,
as I understand,
en tout cas,
in any case,
comme une sorte
like a kind
d'humidificateur d'air,
air humidifier,
un peu,
A little,
parce qu'il y a beaucoup de fumée
because there's a lot of smoke
qui sort de cette bouilloire,
which comes out of this kettle,
donc j'imagine qu'il doit se dire,
So I guess he has to say,
non,
No,
mais comme ça,
But like this,
sa peau,
his skin,
elle ira peut-être un peu mieux,
Maybe she'll get a little better,
on ne sait pas.
We don't know.
Ou alors,
Or,
c'est pour diffuser
it's to broadcast
des huiles essentielles de morphine
morphine essential oils
pour oublier la douleur
to forget the pain
de sa vie actuelle.
of his current life.
Ça,
That,
c'est pour moi
It's for me.
plus une probabilité.
plus a probability.
Et puis,
And then,
au bout d'un moment,
after a while,
donc,
So,
il décide de se barrer
he decides to leave
parce qu'elle est un peu longue
because it's a little long
cette journée,
this day,
quand même,
Still,
il faut partir.
We have to go.
Mais dès qu'Henri,
But as soon as Henri,
il ouvre la porte,
He opens the door,
eh ben,
Well,
le bébé,
the baby,
forcément,
Of course,
il se remet à pleurer,
He starts crying again,
comme si on avait dit
Like we said,
que c'était le fils de Trump.
That he was Trump's son.
Du coup,
So,
il revient,
He's coming back,
et il réessaye quand même
And he's trying again.
de se barrer discrètement
to leave discreetly
en se disant,
saying,
bon,
All right,
là,
There,
ça se trouve,
It turns out,
il va s'endormir,
He'll fall asleep,
mais non,
but no,
non,
No,
ça ne marche pas
It doesn't work.
parce qu'en fait,
because in fact,
au moment de sortir,
at the time of exit,
à chaque fois,
each time,
le gosse,
the kid,
il se transforme en signal d'alarme.
It turns into an alarm signal.
C'est tout le temps,
It's all the time,
ça pleure,
It's crying,
ça pleure non-stop.
It's crying nonstop.
Donc,
So,
en conséquence,
accordingly,
qu'est-ce qui se passe ?
What's going on?
Le papa,
Dad,
il se dit,
He says,
bon,
All right,
je ne vais pas sortir
I'm not going out.
et essayer de se rendormir.
and try to go back to sleep.
Mais bon,
But, well,
c'est compliqué
It's complicated.
entre le pavarotinant
between the pavarotinant
et le radiateur
and radiator
qui s'est pris
who caught himself
pour la foire du trône
for the throne fair
parce qu'en fait,
because in fact,
là,
There,
d'un coup,
suddenly,
il y a une lumière
There's a light
qui sort de l'intérieur
that comes out of the inside
du radiateur,
radiator,
une lumière vraiment
a light really
très forte,
very strong,
très irradioche.
Very radial.
Et là,
And there,
on arrive sur
we get to
le moment un peu
the moment a little
surréaliste,
Surreal,
encore plus
even more
que tout le reste du film.
the rest of the movie.
Oui,
Yes,
parce que pour l'instant,
because for now,
on était vraiment
We were really
basique.
Basic.
On est sur du tangible,
We're on tangible,
du logique
logic
et tout se passe bien.
And everything's going well.
Mais là,
But now,
on enchaîne sur une scène
We're on a stage.
d'une dame.
A lady.
D'un coup,
Suddenly,
on se retrouve
We'll meet again.
à les couilles.
To the balls.
Oui,
Yes,
projetée à l'intérieur
projected inside
du radiateur.
radiator.
Et donc,
And so,
dans ce radiateur,
in this radiator,
c'est une sorte
It's a kind of
de petite planète,
small planet,
un petit univers
a small universe
parce qu'il y a une dame
because there's a lady
sur une scène
on a stage
en robe
In dress
qui est assez particulière,
which is quite special,
comme la décrit Urbain.
as Urban describes.
Alors,
So,
lui,
he,
il voit plus des testicules,
he sees more testicles,
moi,
Me,
je vois plus une femme
I don't see a woman anymore
qui a la tête d'un hamster
who has the head of a hamster
mais qui aurait planqué
but who would have hidden
une Renault 21
a Renault 21
dans chacune de ses joues
in each of his cheeks
parce que c'est vraiment
because it's really
très gros.
Very big.
C'est très,
It's very, very.
très démesuré.
It's too big.
Et donc,
And so,
elle est sur scène,
She's on stage,
elle est en train de danser
She's dancing.
toute seule tranquillement
All alone quietly
avec,
with,
pas loin d'elle,
Not far from her,
qui traîne au sol,
who drags to the ground,
ce que j'ai à nouveau vu
what I saw again
comme des sortes
like kinds
de spermatozoïdes géants,
giant sperm,
des sortes de gros spermatozoïdes
kinds of big sperm
qui sont là un peu.
who are here a little bit.
Donc,
So,
il y a une scène de vie
There's a scene of life
assez banale
fairly common
quand tu as pris une pipe à craque
when you took a crack pipe
pour ta vapoteuse.
For your vamp.
Mais là,
But now,
malheureusement,
Unfortunately,
après sa petite danse bizarre,
after his weird little dance,
la maladroite,
the clumsy,
elle fait quoi ?
What's she doing?
Elle a écrasé
She crashed.
le spermatozoïde géant
the giant sperm
pas loin d'elle.
Not far from her.
Non,
No,
on n'est pas contents.
We're not happy.
C'est dommage
That's too bad.
parce qu'il avait l'air
because he looked
d'une vraie belle personne
of a real beautiful person
avant de se retrouver
before you end up
tout crémeux.
All creamy.
Alors,
So,
qu'est-ce qu'on comprend ?
What do we understand?
Elle,
She,
elle a des couilles
She has balls.
donc elle est fertile
So she's fertile.
mais elle tue des bébés.
But she kills babies.
Qu'est-ce qu'on comprend déjà ?
What do we understand?
Tu nous mets dans la merde.
You put us in shit.
Est-ce que c'est la femme rêvée
Is she the dream woman?
d'Henri
of Henri
qui tue des bébés
who kills babies
comme il aimerait
as he would
qu'on tue des bébés ?
Kill babies?
Qu'est-ce qu'elle exprime
What does she say?
par ce spermatozoïde tué ?
By this sperm that was killed?
Je pense que
I think
de toute façon,
Anyway,
si on doit chercher
if we have to look
qu'est-ce que la psyché
what is psyche?
de tout ça,
of all this,
on est vraiment
We really are.
dans un mur
in a wall
mais effectivement,
but actually,
en tout cas,
in any case,
si on doit essayer
if we have to try
d'y trouver du sens,
to find meaning,
peut-être que c'est une bonne idée
Maybe it's a good idea.
d'écraser certains spermatozoïdes
to crush certain sperm
si jamais ça doit devenir
if it ever has to become
des enfants tortues.
turtle children.
Et voilà,
There you go.
parce qu'elle-même...
Because she herself...
Ce qui n'est pas un film
What's not a movie
pro-avortement pour autant,
pro-abortion however,
attention.
Be careful.
Avec ses joues-couilles.
With his balls.
J'aime bien Jocelyne Joucouille.
I like Jocelyne Joucouille.
Joucouille,
Toy,
j'aime bien.
I like it.
Pour moi,
For me,
elle s'appelle Jocelyne Joucouille.
Her name is Jocelyne Joucouille.
J'aime beaucoup moi.
I like me very much.
Eh bien,
Well,
Jocelyne Joucouille
est peut-être elle-même
may be herself.
à la base
base
un bébé horrible
a horrible baby
qui est né.
who was born.
Et donc,
And so,
elle est là.
She's here.
Non, non,
No, no,
la vie de Joucouille,
the life of Joucouille,
elle est importante.
She's important.
Elle,
She,
c'est la plus bonne des Joucouilles.
It's the best game ever.
Elle a une robe,
She has a dress,
elle est blonde.
She's blonde.
À part les Joucouilles,
Except the Toys,
elle est très...
She's very...
Elle est plutôt pas mal.
She's pretty good.
Elle a l'air un peu mignonne.
She looks a little cute.
Oui,
Yes,
c'est dommage.
That's too bad.
Bah,
Well,
après,
then,
voilà,
There you go.
mais tu sais,
But you know,
il y a des gens,
There are people,
des fois,
sometimes,
j'allais dire,
I was gonna say,
il y a des gens,
There are people,
des fois,
sometimes,
ils sont prêts
they're ready
à passer outre
to be ignored
certains travers.
some of them.
Les Joucouilles,
The Toys,
quand même.
Still.
Ça se voit pas mal.
It's pretty obvious.
C'est vrai que c'est assez présent
It's true it's quite present.
dans tout ce qui est visage.
in all that is face.
Mais,
But,
c'est les Joucouilles
It's the Toys.
qui ont inventé
who invented
la position de la levrette,
the position of the doggystyle,
je pense,
I think,
ou la position du
or the position of the
si on était nier.
If we were to deny it.
Ouais,
Yeah,
qui est une très bonne position
which is a very good position
par moments
at times
ou ce qu'on appelle
or what we call
l'Amazon inversé aussi,
the reverse Amazon too,
tu vois.
See.
Regarde,
Look,
moi,
Me,
je regarde ton dos,
I'm looking at your back,
toi,
You,
tu regardes le mur.
You look at the wall.
Comme ça,
Like this,
on regarde tous les deux un truc
We're both looking at something.
et on est content.
And we're happy.
Amazon inversé,
Reverse Amazon,
c'est vraiment
It really is.
personne ne veut se voir.
Nobody wants to see each other.
Ouais.
Yeah.
En même temps,
At the same time,
la levrette,
Doggystyle,
si,
Yes,
la levrette,
Doggystyle,
je te vois.
I see you.
Oui,
Yes,
tu peux te voir.
You can see yourself.
Là aussi,
Here too,
tu peux,
You can,
mais bon,
But good,
il faut quand même,
You still have to,
ça peut vite se terminer
It can end soon.
en exorciste,
as an exorcist,
quoi.
What.
Vraiment,
Really,
là,
There,
ça peut mal tourner,
It can go wrong,
quoi.
What.
Donc,
So,
après tout ça,
after all this,
hop,
Hey,
cut,
retour sur les parents
back on parents
de Franklin.
Franklin.
Je vais l'appeler Franklin
I'll call him Franklin.
parce que vraiment,
because really,
pour lui,
for him,
c'est une tortue.
It's a turtle.
Qu'essaye,
What are you trying to do?
tant bien que mal de dormir,
It's all wrong to sleep,
c'est toujours compliqué.
It's always complicated.
Quand soudain,
When suddenly,
le papa entend des bruits
Dad hears noises
de sucion très,
very sucking,
très chelous
Very funny
pendant que sa meuf
while her girl
se dandine un peu
Gets a little dandin'
en trans à côté de lui.
Trans next to him.
Alors du coup,
So then,
il se dit,
He says,
il y a peut-être moyen,
Maybe there's a way,
il n'y a peut-être pas moyen.
Maybe there's no way.
Mais c'est quoi ces petits bruits ?
But what are those little noises?
Eh bien,
Well,
tout simplement,
Simply,
une sorte de verre de terre
a kind of earth glass
très loin.
far away.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
ce que tu dis,
What you're saying,
les parents,
parents,
ce n'est pas les parents de...
It's not the parents of...
Non,
No,
non,
ça,
This,
elle n'est plus la...
She's not the...
Non,
No,
c'est ni Joukoui,
It's not Joukoui,
mais ce n'est pas les parents
But it's not the parents.
de Marie non plus.
Neither did Mary.
Non,
No,
quand je dis les parents,
When I say parents,
c'est les parents du bébé.
It's the baby's parents.
Henri et Marie.
Henri and Marie.
Henri et Marie,
Henri and Marie,
pardon si ça a manqué de clarté.
I'm sorry if it wasn't clear.
Alors que tout le film est clair
While the whole movie is clear
depuis toute manière.
Anyway.
C'est l'impide,
It's the unmistakable,
comme de l'eau de roche.
Like rock water.
Donc oui,
So yes,
il y a un verre de terre
There's a glass of earth
très long,
very long,
comme un teignat géant
like a giant pigtail
sorti du bas du corps de Marie.
from the bottom of Mary's body.
Je ne sais pas d'où ça sort.
I don't know where it came from.
On va dire du bas du corps
Let's say from the bottom of the body.
parce que je n'ai pas envie
because I don't want to
de me prononcer.
to pronounce me.
Qui ressemble aussi un peu
Which also looks a bit like
à une sorte de spermatozoïde
a kind of sperm
dopé aux enfêtes.
Doped to the beasts.
On est toujours dans ce truc
We're still in this thing.
mi-verre,
mid-glass,
mi-spermatozoïde.
Half sperm.
On dirait les mouchoirs
Looks like handkerchiefs.
de magicien.
magician.
Il y en a.
There are.
Il en reste.
There's more left.
Donc voilà.
So here you go.
Donc c'était bien de sa faute
So it was her fault.
cette connasse.
That bitch.
Là,
There,
on peut dire que Marie,
It can be said that Marie,
elle est infectée
she's infected
par des vermatozoïdes.
by vermatozoids.
Là,
There,
c'est officiel.
It's official.
À mon avis,
In my opinion,
c'est plus elle
It's more her.
qui a merdé sur ce coup-là.
Who screwed up on that one.
Et elle a peut-être traîné
And maybe she dragged
dans des endroits
in places
où on ne saura jamais
where we'll never know
de la même manière.
In the same way.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
tout ce qu'on a vu
everything we've seen
comme endroit,
as a place,
c'était des endroits
They were places.
où il ne fallait pas.
where you didn't have to.
Il ne fallait pas y aller.
You didn't have to go.
Il n'y a pas un endroit.
There's no place.
En fait,
Actually,
il fallait quitter cette ville
We had to leave this town.
tout simplement.
Quite simply.
Voir cette planète.
See this planet.
Il essaye au début.
He's trying at first.
Après,
Then,
il flotte.
It's floating.
Ce délire d'espace et tout,
This delusion of space and everything,
il y a peut-être un truc
Maybe there's something
d'extraterrestre
of aliens
qui vient d'arriver par là
who just got there
et qui n'aurait pas dû
and who shouldn't have
copuler avec des humains.
Copulating with humans.
Ils ne devaient vraiment
They really didn't have to.
pas aimer Philadelphie.
Not like Philadelphia.
Ah non.
Oh, no.
En même temps,
At the same time,
Philadelphie,
Philadelphia,
ça n'a pas l'air très funky.
It doesn't look very funky.
Non,
No,
mais dans les années 70,
But in the 1970s,
tout pourri et tout.
Everything rotten and everything.
C'est comme Détroit.
It's like Detroit.
C'est des endroits
They're places.
où vraiment tu te dis
where you really think
je ne sais pas si je vais aller
I don't know if I'm gonna go
vraiment fonder une famille
really start a family
dans cet endroit.
in this place.
Donc,
So,
il y a le vert qui sort
There's the green coming out.
et bon,
and good,
il y en a plein.
There's plenty.
Il y en a plein.
Il y en a un deuxième,
There's a second one,
il y en a un troisième.
There's a third one.
Il y a des morceaux.
There are pieces.
Il y a une promo.
There's a promo.
Il y a une petite promo.
There's a little promo.
S'il y en a plus,
If there's more,
je vous le mets quand même.
I'll put it on you anyway.
Dans la panique,
In panic,
le daron,
the daron,
il n'est pas bien.
He's not good.
Donc,
So,
il fait quoi ?
What's he doing?
Il les envoie claquer fort
He sends them to slam
contre le mur de la chambre
against the bedroom wall
et il retombe par terre
and he falls to the ground
près du radiateur
near the radiator
en s'écrasant au sol
crashing on the ground
dans une sorte de gerbe de crème
in a kind of cream germ
qui pourrait faire
which could do
un délicieux gâteau
a delicious cake
pour la nive de ton pire ennemi
for the level of your worst enemy
parce que ce n'est pas
because it's not
très ragoûtant
Very stewing
ce qu'on est en train
what we're doing
de regarder à l'image.
to look at the picture.
Là,
There,
une lumière vient se concentrer
a light comes to concentrate
sur une toute petite armoire
on a very small wardrobe
accrochée au mur.
Hanging on the wall.
Plutôt mignonne d'ailleurs,
Pretty cute by the way,
l'armoire très sympa.
Very nice wardrobe.
Très sympa.
Very nice.
Très bois.
Very woody.
Pour les chineurs.
For the chiners.
Très suisse.
Very Swiss.
Oui,
Yes,
je pense que là,
I think there,
tu peux l'avoir à 40 balles
You can have it 40 bucks.
si tu te démerdes bien
If you're doing well
mais elle ferait bien
But she'd do well.
dans ton intérieur.
inside.
Et donc,
And so,
de cette petite armoire
of this little cabinet
sort une sorte de
sort of
un petit ver de terre.
A little worm.
C'est plus le bébé
It's not the baby anymore.
du ver de terre de tout à l'heure.
from the earthworm earlier.
C'est comme un mini embryon
It's like a mini embryo.
mais en forme de croissant.
but in crescent shape.
D'accord.
Okay.
Moi,
Me,
c'est le moment un peu
Now's the time.
plus gourmet du film.
More gourmet of the movie.
Alors,
So,
c'est le moment de rappeler
Time to call back
ce n'est pas un film
It's not a movie.
à snack.
Snack.
Non.
No.
Alors oui,
So yes,
effectivement,
indeed,
le snacking
Snacks
n'est pas une option.
is not an option.
Les lasagnes,
The lasagna,
réservez-les pour Koh-Lanta
Book them for Koh-Lanta
si jamais vous voulez.
If you want to.
Non mais,
No, but,
pas de bonbons créma,
No cream candy,
pas de cacahuètes,
no peanuts,
pas de popcorn,
No popcorn,
tout ce qui s'ingère.
Everything that's involved.
Tout ce qui est de la mousse au choco,
All that's about choco foam,
pareil.
Same.
Tout ce qui est la purée,
All that is puree,
vraiment évitez
Really avoid
parce que ça va
'Cause it's okay.
un peu vous faire passer
a little pass you through
une soirée pas terrible.
Not a terrible night.
Non mais il y a des films
No, but there are movies.
qui donnent faim.
that make you hungry.
Pas lui.
Not him.
Non.
No.
C'est un film régime.
It's a diet movie.
Ça,
That,
c'est un film qui donne pas faim.
It's a movie that doesn't make you hungry.
Oui,
Yes,
c'est l'Ozampic.
It's the Ozampic.
Ça marche mieux.
It works better.
Franchement,
Honestly,
plutôt que de prendre
instead of taking
des Médocs chelous,
Chewy medocs,
un petit coup des Razerhead
a little Razerhead hit
dès que vous avez une montée,
as soon as you have a climb,
je peux vous dire,
I can tell you,
les 20 kilos,
20 kilos,
ils vont partir
They're leaving.
en moins de deux heures.
In less than two hours.
Putain.
Fuck.
Donc,
So,
le verre de terre
earth glass
qui s'est fait exploser,
who blew himself up,
il est...
He's...
D'ailleurs,
Besides,
si vous regardez Razerhead
if you look at Razerhead
en mode normal
in normal mode
avec votre gros
with your fat
de saut de popcorn
popcorn jump
en train de kiffer
in the process of kiffer
et on aime le cinéma chelou,
and we love the movies,
mais on va vous le juger quand même.
But we'll judge you anyway.
Moi,
Me,
je pense que je vais dire
I think I'll say
je dois déménager maintenant.
I have to move now.
Putain,
Fuck,
énorme Razerhead.
Big Razerhead.
Oui,
Yes,
c'est énorme.
It's huge.
C'est énorme,
It's huge,
c'est énorme.
It's huge.
Allez,
Come on.
à plus tard
to later
dans une vie postérieure.
in a later life.
Arrête,
Stop,
on se fait la grande bouffe derrière.
We're having big food in the back.
Non,
No,
non,
ça va,
It's okay,
merci.
Thank you.
Donc,
So,
le verre,
glass,
il est au sol.
He's on the ground.
Il est mort,
He died,
il est explosé à la crème.
It's blown in cream.
Je pense à un truc.
I'm thinking about something.
Dis-moi.
Tell me.
Imagine,
quand on a atteint,
When we reached,
on doit pas être très loin,
We can't be far away.
des 24 heures de film.
24 hours of film.
Qu'est-ce que tu attends
What are you waiting for?
par les 24 heures de film ?
the 24 hours of film?
Les 24 heures de film
The 24 hours of film
de notre podcast.
from our podcast.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
oui,
Yes,
largement.
largely.
Eh bien,
Well,
on fait une journée horrible
We're having a horrible day.
avec des gens
with people
dans un cinéma,
in a cinema,
un marathon.
A marathon.
On loue un ciné
We rent a movie
et on fait tout à la suite.
And we'll do everything in a row.
Vas-y,
Go ahead.
si tu veux.
If you want.
L'horreur.
The horror.
On va,
Let's go,
à mon avis,
In my opinion,
là,
There,
on est deux,
There are two of us,
on va être peut-être quatre,
Maybe we'll be four,
mais on va rigoler.
But we're gonna laugh.
En vrai,
Actually,
moi,
Me,
c'est aparté.
It's apart.
Là,
There,
en ce moment,
right now,
à chaque fois,
each time,
en sortie de spectacle,
out of the show,
j'ai au moins une personne
I have at least one person
qui me dit
who tells me
c'est quand le prochain
When's next?
Fucked Up Movies ?
Fucked Up Movies?
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
ben...
Well...
Donc,
So,
on aura peut-être
Maybe we'll have
plus de quatre personnes.
More than four people.
À Paris,
In Paris,
on peut carrément être
we can be
50-100.
Franchement,
Honestly,
à Paris,
in Paris,
possible.
Et du coup,
And so,
on va faire passer
We're gonna get through.
des tests d'hygiène.
hygiene tests.
Toi,
You,
t'en as déjà fait
You've done it before.
des marathons ?
Marathons?
Parce que moi,
Because I,
j'ai jamais vu
I've never seen
plus de deux films d'affinée.
more than two fine films.
Ah si,
Ah yes,
si.
Yes.
Alors,
So,
déjà,
already,
juste au festival
Just at the festival
de Gérard Mer,
by Gérard Mer,
le max que j'ai fait
the max I've done
dans la journée,
in the day,
c'était 7.
It was seven.
En finissant à 4h du mat
Finishing at 4am
et en commençant à...
and starting at...
En fait,
Actually,
ça me va.
That's fine with me.
C'est juste que...
It's just...
Oui,
Yes,
alors après...
Then after...
Moi,
Me,
je dors souvent
I sleep often
devant les films.
In front of the movies.
Moi,
Me,
ça m'arrive aussi.
It happens to me, too.
Et puis surtout,
And most importantly,
il y a des moments,
There are moments,
il y a des siestes stratégiques.
There are strategic naps.
Quand on mat 7,
When you're at 7
si ton 4ème,
If your fourth,
il n'est pas bon,
It's not good,
tu dis c'est maintenant.
You say it's now.
C'est maintenant
It's now.
que vous ne me voyez plus
you don't see me anymore
pendant 8h45.
For 8:45.
Moi,
Me,
je ne décide pas aussi.
I don't decide too.
Je ne décide jamais.
I never decide.
Ça peut tomber n'importe quand.
It can fall anytime.
Ça peut tomber sur...
It can happen on...
Moi,
Me,
je me rends compte
I realize
que des fois,
than sometimes,
être dans l'obscurité totale,
be in total darkness,
même si je sors de 8h,
Even if I come out of 8:00,
il y a mon cerveau
There's my brain.
qui peut dire
which can say
du coup,
So,
on repart là.
We're going back.
Je suis là,
I'm here,
non,
No,
calme-toi.
Calm down.
Mais ouais,
But yeah,
putain,
Fuck,
à ton avis,
In your opinion,
donc on sort de ce truc,
So we get out of this thing,
on fait quelques siestes,
We take a few naps,
mais on sort les 6.
But we're getting the six out.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
bah oui.
Yeah.
Non,
No,
mais il faut qu'on fasse
But we have to do
des blagues
jokes
entre les films
between films
tout le temps,
All the time,
sinon on ne peut pas
otherwise we can't
juste passer les films
just pass the movies
et dire
and say
et maintenant,
and now,
Human Centipede 3
et après,
and then,
retourner nous asseoir
go back and sit down
et enchaîner.
and chain.
Je t'explique.
I'll explain.
On va les perdre.
We're gonna lose them.
Donc,
So,
on attaque par Human Centipede.
We're attacking Human Centipede.
Normal.
Puis,
Then,
on se fait la grande bouffe.
We're having big food.
Ouais,
Yeah,
déjà,
already,
ça enchaîne.
It keeps going.
Visitor Q derrière,
Visitor Q behind,
waouh.
Wow.
Non,
No,
tu vois,
See,
c'est pas mal
It's not bad.
parce qu'après,
because after,
Massacre à la Tronçonneuse 2,
Massacre at the Tronsaw 2,
on va rigoler.
We're gonna laugh.
Ouais,
Yeah,
mais il y a Visitor Q avant.
But there's Visitor Q before.
Ouais,
Yeah,
non,
No,
mais au début,
but at first,
on attaque fort.
We're attacking hard.
Les 3 premiers,
First three,
gars,
man,
ils font trop mal.
They hurt too much.
Eh vas-y,
Come on.
de l'inceste,
incest,
eh vas-y,
Oh, go ahead,
des trucs pas bien.
Something bad.
Massacre à la Tronçonneuse 2,
Massacre at the Tronsaw 2,
on rigole un peu.
We're kidding.
Ça, on rigole,
We're laughing.
c'est bien.
That's good.
Malignante,
Evil,
ça va.
It's okay.
Ça va bien.
Bud Boy,
on va re-rire.
We're gonna laugh again.
Et après,
And then,
la fin,
the end,
après,
then,
c'est limite,
that's limit,
on cruise tranquille
We'll cruise quietly.
parce qu'on fait
because we're doing
Cannibal Holocaust,
on se remet dedans.
We're back in.
Terrifier 3,
Terrifiing 3,
je crois.
I think so.
Les Dents de la Mer,
The Teeth of the Sea,
on va se marrer.
We're gonna have fun.
On se termine avec Feston.
We're finishing with Feston.
Très bien.
All right.
Non,
No,
mais il faut conclure
but we must conclude
sur Air Hazard
on Air Hazard
maintenant qu'on l'a dit.
Now that we've said it.
Et après,
And then,
ce sera vraiment
It'll really be.
le bouquet final.
the final bouquet.
Et ça fera 13 films.
And that'll make 13 movies.
À mon avis,
In my opinion,
ça fait pas loin
It's not far.
des 24 heures.
24 hours.
Là,
There,
on commence à 11 heures,
We start at 11:00,
on finit à midi,
We finish at noon,
le lendemain.
the next day.
Et après,
And then,
vraiment,
Really,
dans la salle,
in the room,
ça va sentir
It'll smell
pas la noix de coco.
Not coconut.
Terrible.
Mais un peu marrant.
But a little fun.
Dites-nous,
Tell us,
si jamais vous voulez
if you ever want
qu'on le fasse.
Let us do it.
On va voir si c'est possible
Let's see if it's possible.
parce que c'est un peu
because it's a little bit
rigolo à faire.
Nice to do.
Ça peut être marrant.
It can be fun.
Donc,
So,
les murs,
the walls,
non,
No,
les murs,
the walls,
le ver de terre
earthworm
qui s'est fait exploser
who blew himself up
contre le mur,
against the wall,
là,
There,
il n'a pas envie
He doesn't want to.
de s'arrêter.
to stop.
Il a envie de dire,
He wants to say,
ben non,
Well, no,
c'est quoi,
What is it,
moi,
Me,
je suis un ver de terre
I am a worm
mais je suis plus solide
But I'm stronger
que même si j'ai de la crème
even if I have cream
qui sort de moi.
That's coming out of me.
Donc,
So,
il se met à remonter
He starts to climb
le long du mur.
along the wall.
Doucement,
Easy,
en faisant une sorte
making a kind of
de corrée de gymnastique
of gymnastic correa
digne d'une médaille d'or au JO
worthy of a gold medal at the Olympics
parce que vraiment,
because really,
tu sens que c'est presque
you feel it's almost
de l'animation à ce moment-là.
animation at that time.
Tu vois le truc
You see the thing.
qui bouge bizarrement.
That moves weirdly.
C'est assez marrant.
It's kind of fun.
Tout en poussant des petits cris
While crying
de chaton égorgés quand même
Of kitten slaughtered anyway
parce qu'il faut remettre du glauque.
'Cause we have to get back on the ice.
Imitation du cri ?
Imitation of the cry?
C'est pas mal.
It's not bad.
C'est pas mal ?
Isn't that bad?
Ouais, merci.
Yeah, thanks.
Ensuite,
Then,
Henri commence à craquer.
Henry's starting to crack.
Franchement,
Honestly,
il n'est pas très solide.
He's not very strong.
Il pourrait se dire,
He could say,
oh,
Oh,
ça va,
It's okay,
après tout,
After all,
les pères de famille,
the fathers of the family,
parfois,
Sometimes,
c'est compliqué d'avoir un enfant.
It's complicated to have a child.
J'avoue qu'il encaisse.
I admit he's cashing in.
Il a encaissé longtemps.
He took a long time.
Il encaisse.
He's cashing in.
Il encaisse beaucoup.
He's cashing a lot.
Là,
There,
tu commences à sentir
You're starting to feel
que ça se fissure
that it cracks
à l'intérieur de lui.
inside him.
Mais coup de bol,
But it's a big blow.
qui c'est qui fait
Who's doing it?
toc, toc, toc à la porte ?
Toc, toc, toc at the door?
C'est la voisine.
She's the neighbor.
Eh oui !
Yes!
La voisine qui est plutôt pas mal,
The neighbor who's pretty good,
d'ailleurs,
Indeed,
bonne nouvelle.
Good news.
Et elle lui dit
And she tells him
qu'elle s'est enfermée dehors.
She locked herself out.
Oh non,
Oh, no.
la pauvre.
Poor thing.
Ça,
That,
quand ça arrive,
When it happens,
vraiment,
Really,
c'est toujours un peu de dépit.
It's always a little offended.
Du coup,
So,
il fait quoi ?
What's he doing?
En plus,
Plus,
j'étais en petite tenue.
I was in a little outfit.
J'ai en petite tenue,
I got a little outfit,
j'ai mis du rouge à lèvres,
I put on lipstick,
je suis un peu sexy en vous regardant.
I'm a little sexy looking at you.
Mais ça,
But this,
ça m'arrive tout le temps
It happens to me all the time
quand je suis enfermé dehors.
when I'm locked out.
C'est un petit truc.
It's a little thing.
Du coup,
So,
il est poli.
He's polite.
C'est important,
It's important,
la politesse.
politeness.
Du coup,
So,
il fait quoi ?
What's he doing?
Il la fait rentrer.
He's bringing her in.
Et comme il y a des regards
And as there are eyes
un peu étranges entre eux...
A little strange between them...
Petite parenthèse,
Little parenthesis,
il n'y a pas longtemps,
Not long ago,
je suis tombé sur un forum,
I ran into a forum,
enfin,
Finally,
un subreddit de gens
a subreddit of people
qui demandent aux autres gens
who ask other people
quand est-ce que vous avez eu
when did you get
une encase en or
a gold box
avec une meuf
with a girl
et que vous ne l'avez pas compris
and you didn't understand it
et que vous avez été
and that you have been
genre trop con.
Like too stupid.
Et ça,
And this,
chaque mec a une histoire
Every guy has a story.
qui le hante
who haunts him
de clairement,
clearly,
il y avait méga moyen.
There was a big way.
Il y avait tous les signaux.
There were all the signals.
Et ce qui est trop drôle,
And what's so funny,
c'est que c'est que des gars
It's just guys.
qui ont vécu ça
who experienced it
et qui ont donc été une fois
and therefore once
vraiment complètement con
I mean, really, totally stupid.
dans leur vie
in their lives
en même temps
simultaneously
comment tu n'as pas pu le voir
how you couldn't see it
et à chaque anecdote,
and every anecdote,
tout le monde fait
Everyone does
non mais là,
No, but here,
tu es vraiment con.
You're such an asshole.
Et c'est que des mecs,
And they're just guys,
elle était à poil
She was naked.
dans mon lit,
in my bed,
elle disait...
She said...
Franchement,
Honestly,
si ça se passe maintenant,
If it happens now,
c'est super.
That's great.
Et non, quoi.
And no, what.
Ah,
j'ai perdu,
I lost,
on a perdu quelque chose.
We lost something.
Non,
No,
c'est mon casque
It's my helmet.
qui ne marchait plus.
That didn't work anymore.
Vas-y,
Go ahead.
attends.
Wait.
Non,
No,
je ne t'entends pas.
I can't hear you.
Je ne t'entends pas.
J'espère que ça a marché
I hope it worked.
tout du long.
All the way.
Non,
No,
non,
je t'entendais.
I heard you.
Justement,
Exactly,
tout de suite,
Now,
j'ai compris que je ne t'entendais plus.
I realized I couldn't hear you.
Il est fort.
He's strong.
Ouais,
Yeah,
et donc,
and so,
tu as lu des trucs
You read stuff.
où vraiment,
where really,
tu te dis,
You're thinking,
non mais là,
No, but here,
c'est pas possible.
It's not possible.
Mais tu es magnifique.
But you look beautiful.
Une fois,
Once,
moi,
Me,
je me suis retrouvé,
I ended up,
je déménageais mon père,
I was moving my father,
mais je...
But I...
Non,
No,
je vidais l'appart
I was emptying the apartment.
parce qu'il était mort.
Because he was dead.
D'accord.
Okay.
Mais la voisine d'en face,
But the neighbor opposite,
il y avait mon pote
There was my buddy.
et on bouge des trucs
And we move things
et la voisine vient
And the neighbor comes
et nous dit,
And tell us,
venez,
Come,
il y a une araignée
There's a spider
chez moi et tout
home and everything
et on arrive
And we're coming
et il n'y a rien.
And there's nothing.
Elle dit,
She says,
non mais le meuble,
not but the furniture,
il était là et tout.
He was there and everything.
Le meuble,
The furniture,
il était là ?
Was he there?
Non mais j'aurais dit,
No, but I would have said,
ouais,
Yeah,
il fallait bouger.
We had to move.
C'est trop bizarre,
It's so weird,
c'est qu'en fait,
It's just, actually,
on arrive et on sent
We're coming and we feel
qu'il n'y avait rien à faire,
that there was nothing to do,
tu vois.
See.
Et après,
And then,
c'est un peu gênant
It's a little awkward.
et on va y aller
And we're gonna go
et genre,
and gender,
on se dit rien avec mon pote,
We don't say anything with my buddy,
on se retrouve dans la voiture
We'll meet in the car.
et au bout de...
And at the end of...
Une scène de film,
A movie scene,
au bout de trois minutes
after three minutes
dans la voiture,
in the car,
on se retourne genre,
We're like turning around,
non.
No.
Et puis en même temps,
And then at the same time,
on se regarde genre,
Look at each other like,
tu crois pas que...
You don't think...
Mais non.
But no.
Oh là là !
Oh, there!
Non,
No,
mais c'est pas vrai !
But it's not true!
Et voilà,
There you go.
elle,
she,
je crois qu'elle pouvait
I think she could
pas faire mieux
not do better
mais peut-être que pas du tout.
But maybe not at all.
Peut-être que...
Maybe...
Non mais bon,
No, but good,
ça restera...
It'll stay...
En fait,
Actually,
cette suspension d'incrédulité,
the suspension of unbelief,
elle fera l'histoire.
She'll make the story.
Vous pourrez en reparler
You can talk about it again.
en disant,
saying,
ça se trouve,
It turns out,
mais ça se trouve,
But it turns out,
ça se trouve pas,
I don't think so.
mais ça se trouve.
But it does.
C'est toujours bien
It's always good.
ces histoires-là.
These stories.
Bon là,
All right.
clairement,
clearly,
la voisine...
The neighbor...
Ah bah,
Ah, well,
il y a moyen
there's a way
parce qu'il y a vraiment
because there really is
des regards un peu étranges
a little strange look
entre eux en plus.
And they're more.
Donc lui,
So he,
discrètement,
discreetly,
du coup,
So,
pour calmer le bébé
to calm the baby
qui pleure,
crying,
parce qu'il est un peu dérangeant
because he's a little disturbing
quand même depuis maintenant
Still since now
qu'il est né d'ailleurs,
that he was born,
Henri lui met un peu,
Henri's putting him a little,
un peu,
A little,
je dis bien un peu,
I'm saying a little,
ne soyez pas choqués,
Don't be shocked,
un peu la main sur la bouche
a little hand on your mouth
pour essayer d'atténuer le bordel.
Trying to ease the mess.
Et si par la faute à pas de chance,
And if by the fault of no luck,
le bébé chelou,
the baby,
il a plus d'oxygène,
It has more oxygen,
c'est une bonne journée
It's a good day.
pour tout le monde.
For everyone.
C'est pas grave,
It's okay.
grave non plus.
Neither is it serious.
La vie des fois fait que
Sometimes life makes
une phalange,
a phalange,
ça peut obstruer
It can obstruct
une bonne journée
a good day
pour tout le monde.
For everyone.
C'est vraiment
It really is.
ses oreilles et son pénis
his ears and penis
parce que lui,
because he,
je crois que vraiment,
I really think,
il n'a pas souvent l'occasion
he doesn't often have the opportunity
d'avoir des relations sexuelles.
having sex.
Surtout avec une fille
Especially with a girl
qui n'est ni Joucouille,
who is not Joucouille,
ni Marie qui est bizarre,
or Mary who's weird,
Jocelyne Joucouille,
ni Marie qui est pleine de verre.
or Mary who is full of glass.
Là, elle n'est pas prête.
Now she's not ready.
Enfin quand même,
Still,
mon Henri avec sa coupe de con,
my Henri with his stupid cup,
il y a une Marie
There's a Mary
qui à la base était pas mal.
Which at the base was pretty good.
Qui était pas mal ?
Who was good?
Ouais.
Yeah.
Il y a Joucouille
There's Joucouille
avec qui il y a moyen.
With whom there is a way.
Après Joucouille,
After Joucouille,
bon, il peut être
Well, he might be.
un peu plus piqué.
A little bit more swipe.
Il y a la mère de Marie
There's Mary's mother
qui lui fait des bisous
Who kisses her
dans le cou
in the neck
et la voisine Bonas.
And the neighbor Bonas.
Quand même.
Still.
Mais tu crois pas
But you don't think so.
qu'on devrait,
that we should,
nous aussi,
We too,
mettre du gel
gel
et se faire une espèce
and make a species
de coupe à la New Kids
New Kids Cup
under block là ?
Under block here?
C'est le plus gros baiser
It's the biggest kiss
de Philadelphie en tout cas.
Philadelphia anyway.
En tout cas, ouais.
Anyway, yeah.
En tout cas,
Anyway,
le ratio physique,
the physical ratio,
mental
et joie de vivre,
and joy of life,
corrélé à la baise,
correlates with the fucking,
il a gagné
He won
sur les Etats-Unis.
the United States.
En vrai,
Actually,
la seule meuf
the only girl
qu'il a croisée
that he crossed
avec qui il y a peu
with whom recently
eu moyen,
average,
c'était la vieille morte.
It was the old dead one.
Et encore,
And again,
on sait pas.
We don't know.
Ça se trouve,
I guess so.
elle le trouvait mignon
She thought he was cute.
mais comme elle n'arrive
But as she does
plus à parler
more to talk about
vu qu'elle est bloquée
because she's stuck
à l'intérieur.
inside.
Donc voilà,
So here you go,
finalement,
finally,
la seule personne
the only person
qui sait presque pas
who hardly knows
parce qu'à un moment,
because at some point,
Joucouille,
Toy,
il va l'embrasser,
He'll kiss her,
on est d'accord ?
Do we agree?
Oui.
Yes.
Donc,
So,
il a embrassé
He kissed
toutes les meufs du film.
All the girls in the movie.
Ça se trouve,
I guess so.
c'est juste un remake
It's just a remake.
de Donjon.
Donjon.
On n'a rien compris,
We didn't understand,
nous.
us.
Putain,
Fuck,
il est trop fort,
He's too strong,
David Lynch.
Donc,
So,
on a franchement du flair
We really have a flair.
mais miracle,
But miracle,
il baisse.
It's dropping.
Les deux se mettent
Both of them are starting
à baiser.
Fucking.
Alors,
So,
dans une sorte
in a kind
de baignoire ronde
Round tub
qui a,
which has,
si j'ai bien compris,
If I understand correctly,
tu me diras,
You'll tell me,
remplacer le lit
replace bed
parce que pour moi,
because to me,
c'était là où il y avait
That was where it was.
le lit,
the bed,
la baignoire.
The bathtub.
Donc,
So,
peut-être,
Maybe,
elle a métamorphosé.
She changed.
Il y a un liquide dedans,
There's a liquid in it,
non ?
No?
Alors,
So,
c'est plus qu'un liquide.
It's more than a liquid.
Dans mon souvenir,
In my memory,
c'est...
It's...
Moi,
Me,
j'apparente ça
I look like that.
à du lait.
milk.
C'est comme une sorte
It's like a kind of
de lait,
milk,
quoi.
What.
Parce que...
Because...
En tout cas,
Anyway,
ils s'embrassent dans...
They kiss in...
Ouais,
Yeah,
en fait,
Actually,
tu vois un espèce
you see a species
d'effet ralenti,
slowing effect,
inversé.
reverse.
La fertilité,
Fertility,
quelque part,
somewhere,
le sperme...
semen...
J'imagine qu'en tout cas,
I guess anyway,
le masque et la plume
mask and feather
auront vraiment des choses
Will really have things
à dire par rapport
in relation to
à cette scène
at this scene
où on voit une sorte
where you see a sort of
d'effet de tsunami,
tsunami effect,
de lait,
milk,
avec un effet inversé,
with reverse effect,
mis à l'envers.
Put in reverse.
C'est très bizarre.
That's very weird.
Et d'un coup,
And suddenly,
on sent...
You smell...
En tout cas,
Anyway,
il y a du mouvement
There's movement
entre deux.
between two.
C'est bien.
That's good.
Par contre,
However,
c'est bien
That's good.
jusqu'à ce que ça soit pas bien
until it's bad.
parce que la voisine,
because the neighbor,
elle remarque le bébé
She notices the baby
à un moment.
At some point.
Et elle aime pas trop
And she doesn't like it.
parce que c'est vrai
because it's true
qu'il a des traits
that he has traits
assez spécifiques
rather specific
parce qu'il ressemble
because he looks like
quand même plus
even more
à une sorte de dragibus
a kind of dragibus
à qui on aurait mis
to whom we would have put
une bouche, quoi.
A mouth.
Il y a rien qui va.
Nothing's right.
C'est le mien,
It's mine,
ça va pas.
It's not okay.
Non,
No,
mais en fait,
But actually,
je vais le buter.
I'll kill him.
Enfin,
Finally,
il y a rien.
There's nothing.
C'est un copain.
He's a friend.
C'est dur de trouver
It's hard to find
vraiment la bonne excuse
really the right excuse.
pour dire non,
to say no,
mais ça se trouve,
But it turns out,
tu vois pas bien.
You don't see well.
Non,
No,
vraiment,
Really,
ça va pas.
It's not okay.
Donc,
So,
elle est un peu déstabilisée,
She's a little destabilized,
mais pas longtemps,
but not long,
sachant que d'un coup,
knowing that suddenly,
en fait,
Actually,
on voit la sorte de météorite patate
we see the kind of potato meteorite
du début du film,
of the beginning of the film,
l'espèce de...
the kind of...
Comment tu l'avais décrit,
How you described it,
toi ?
You?
Non,
No,
moi,
Me,
j'avais juste dit
I just said
que c'était la Terre,
that it was the Earth,
une Terre.
Earth.
Une Terre,
An Earth,
mais météorite patate,
but potato meteorite,
c'est bien.
That's good.
Météorite patate,
Potato meteorite,
parce que pour moi,
because to me,
ça fait un peu météorite patate.
It's a little potato meteorite.
Et donc,
And so,
on la revoit
We'll see her again.
et on transitionne
and transition
sur l'apparition
on Appearance
à nouveau
again
de la femme du radiateur.
the woman of the radiator.
Moi,
Me,
je l'ai appelé
I called him.
le hamster géant
the giant hamster
sur deux pattes.
Two legs.
Jocelyne Joukouille ?
Jocelyne Jokuille?
Ouais,
Yeah,
mais je préfère Jocelyne Joukouille.
But I prefer Jocelyne Jokuille.
Moi,
Me,
je vais l'appeler Jocelyne Joukouille.
I'm gonna call him Jocelyne Jokuille.
Alors,
So,
Jocelyne Joukouille,
Jocelyne Jokuille,
elle est là,
She's here,
on la revoit
We'll see her again.
sur sa petite scène
on his little stage
et qu'est-ce qu'elle fait ?
And what is she doing?
Bah,
Well,
elle se sent mieux
she feels better
que la première fois,
that the first time,
du coup,
So,
il n'y a pas plein
It's not full.
de spermatozoïdes relous.
Relous sperm.
Non,
No,
déjà,
already,
il y a juste
there's just
une belle lumière
a beautiful light
et lui dans le coin,
and he in the corner,
du coup,
So,
elle fait quoi ?
What's she doing?
Eh bien,
Well,
elle chante
She sings
une petite chanson agréable
a nice little song
où elle dit
where she says
que dans les paroles,
that in words,
c'est au paradis,
It's in heaven,
tout va bien.
It's all right.
Et effectivement,
And actually,
ça change ce qui se passe
It changes what happens.
en dehors du radiateur
outside the radiator
parce que
because
ça se voit
I can tell.
qu'elle n'a pas vu
that she didn't see
Franklin.
Non.
No.
Franklin.
Donc,
So,
pour le spectateur
for the spectator
qui n'a pas demandé pas tant,
who didn't ask so much,
en fait,
Actually,
on vient de se taper
We've just been banged.
un petit instant
Just a moment.
comédie musicale
musical
où le protagoniste
where the protagonist
est l'incarnation humaine
is the human incarnation
de Hamtaro.
from Hamtaro.
Pour ceux qui ont la ref,
For those who have the ref,
Hamtaro,
tu l'as ou pas toi ?
You got it or not?
Non,
No,
dessin animé
cartoon
avec plein de hamsters.
full of hamsters.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
d'accord.
Okay.
Tu vois les petits...
You see the little ones...
Oui,
Yes,
oui,
oui.
Yeah.
C'est pour notre public...
It's for our audience...
C'est le truc de Ghibli,
It's Ghibli's thing,
là ?
There?
Non.
No.
Ah non ?
Right?
D'accord,
Okay,
pas du tout.
Not at all.
Alors,
So,
j'ai pas la ref.
I don't have the ref.
Romchit et Ernest,
Romchit and Ernest,
Y,
Restopla,
Bijoux,
Jewelry,
Amiral et Chapeau.
Admiral and Hat.
T'as le nom de tous ces...
You have the name of all these...
Ouais,
Yeah,
parce que c'est le générique.
Because it's the credits.
Romchit et Ernest,
Romchit and Ernest,
Tigre,
Tiger,
Restopla,
Bijoux,
Jewelry,
Amiral et Chapeau.
Admiral and Hat.
Mais attendez,
But wait,
c'est pas Ghibli.
It's not Ghibli.
Oui,
Yes,
non,
No,
ce que je regardais,
What I was looking at,
c'est que c'est pas du tout
It's not at all.
votre génération.
Your generation.
Pourquoi vous avez regardé ça
Why did you look at this?
à 97-2000 ?
97-2000?
Bah si,
Yeah,
ça passait à la télé,
It went on TV,
je pense.
I think so.
Oui,
Yes,
je sais,
I know,
mais en 97,
but in 97,
t'avais quel âge ?
How old were you?
J'avais pas l'âge
I wasn't old.
de regarder Hamtaro,
to watch Hamtaro,
mais je regardais pas Hamtaro,
But I wasn't looking at Hamtaro,
sauf que des fois,
Except sometimes,
je m'attais à la télé,
I was on TV,
il y avait le générique
There was the credits.
et au bout d'un moment,
and after a while,
tu vois des hamsters qui dansent
you see hamsters dancing
et des noms de hamsters
and names of hamsters
répétés beaucoup de fois
repeated many times
et après,
and then,
ça rentre dans la tête.
It fits in the head.
C'est vrai que c'est...
It's true that it's...
Ça,
That,
c'est Colonel,
It's Colonel,
c'est Colonel.
It's Colonel.
J'avais 15 ans,
I was 15,
je pense.
I think so.
D'accord.
Okay.
Bah écoutez...
Look...
Moi,
Me,
c'est pas le générique
It's not generic.
dont je me souviens.
I remember.
Ah bon ?
Right?
Bon,
All right,
le générique dont je me souviens
the credits I remember
était beaucoup plus mature,
was much more mature,
beaucoup plus adulte.
much more adult.
Non,
No,
ça n'a rien à voir,
It has nothing to do with it.
c'est un truc de gamin.
It's a kid thing.
Moi,
Me,
c'était le Hamtaro...
It was the Hamtaro...
Il y avait de la philosophie.
There was philosophy.
Non,
No,
moi,
Me,
c'était le Hamtaro solide.
It was the solid Hamtaro.
Et puis après,
And then,
il faisait du MMA,
he was doing MMA,
je me souviens.
I remember.
Non,
No,
c'était Hamtaro bonhomme.
It was Hamtaro guy.
C'était pas du tout ça.
It wasn't that at all.
En tout cas,
Anyway,
je fais passer le message
I'm sending the message.
pour ceux qui ont eu
for those who have had
la rêve d'Hamtaro,
Hamtaro's dream,
vous avez gagné,
You won,
ça me fait plaisir.
It makes me happy.
Donc,
So,
je joue mon nouveau spectacle
I play my new show
tous les mercredis à Paris
every Wednesday in Paris
jusqu'au 28 mai au point virgule
until 28 May at point
et je vous invite
and I invite you
à acheter vos putains de places
buy your fucking seats
parce que c'est pas Fucktop Movies
because it's not Fucktop Movies
qui va payer le loyer.
who'll pay the rent.
Donc,
So,
vraiment,
Really,
voilà.
There.
Bravo pour la ref.
Bravo for the ref.
Bravo.
Par contre,
However,
venez voir nos spectacles.
Come and see our shows.
Par contre,
However,
vous allez gagner une place
You're gonna win a seat.
qui,
which,
pareil,
the same,
sera payante,
will be paid,
mais au premier rang
but first
du marathon Fucktop Movies.
Fucktop Movies marathon.
Oui,
Yes,
vous serez là,
You'll be there,
central,
Central
et on vous servira
and they will serve you
un soda
a soda
de votre choix.
of your choice.
Faudrait trouver
Should find
la tue,
Kill her,
c'est quoi le Blue Monday,
What's Blue Monday,
le pire jour du monde
the worst day of the world
en novembre ?
November?
Il y a un jour...
A day ago...
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
oui,
Yes,
je vois ce que c'est.
I see what it is.
Il faut le faire ce jour-là,
We have to do it that day,
ça veut dire en plus
That means more.
on ne va pas avoir...
We're not gonna have...
Mais de toute façon,
But anyway,
j'allais dire,
I was gonna say,
il n'y aura pas beaucoup
There won't be much
de soleil dehors.
Sun outside.
Pas de lumière.
No light.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
on sera tout le temps
We'll be all the time.
dans le ciné,
in the movies,
donc pas de lumière.
So no light.
Après,
Then,
on ne peut pas louer
We can't rent
un ciné 24 heures.
A movie 24 hours.
Il faut qu'on trouve
We need to find
un hangar.
A hangar.
Moi,
Me,
ce que je trouve,
What I find,
si on le fait,
If we do,
quand on va le faire,
when we do it,
c'est mieux de dire
It's better to say
quand on va le faire,
when we do it,
à la sortie,
at the exit,
il faut tous qu'on fasse
We all need to do
un test,
a test,
une prise de sang,
a blood sample,
pour savoir
to know
qui a commencé
that started
à développer un cancer.
develop cancer.
Au bout de 24 heures,
After 24 hours,
tu vois,
See,
avant,
before,
tout va bien
It's all right.
et après,
and then,
tiens,
Here,
c'est marrant,
It's funny.
lui,
he,
il commence à avoir
he's starting to get
une tumeur.
A tumor.
C'est bizarre.
That's weird.
Voir qui sont
See who are
les plus solides
the strongest
dans cette histoire.
in this story.
Non,
No,
non,
c'est important.
It's important.
Donc,
So,
mais en vrai,
But actually,
tu crois que
you think
si tu fais un festival
if you do a festival
comme ça,
Like this,
mais que c'est que
But that's that
des gens
People
feel good movies,
tu vois,
See,
genre,
Like,
c'est relou.
It's new.
Non,
No,
mais ouais,
But yeah,
mais tu ne crois pas
but you don't think
que tu sors,
that you go out,
non,
No,
mais c'est justement,
But it's just,
tu ne crois pas
You don't think so.
que tu sors plus bizarre.
That you're getting weirder.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
un marathon
a marathon
de 24 heures de film,
24 hours of film,
peu importe le film,
Whatever the movie,
tu sors,
You go out,
tu es déglingué de la tête.
You're out of your head.
Ah bah oui,
Oh, yeah.
c'est sûr.
Sure.
Mais en vrai,
But actually,
je pense que
I think
regarder Kyo
Watch Kyo
des trucs horribles
Horrible stuff
comme ça,
Like this,
c'est presque mieux
It's almost better.
pour la tête
Head
que si tu avais vu
that if you'd seen
12 téléfilms de TF1.
12 TF1 telefilms.
Ah mais non,
Oh, but no,
mais un téléfilm,
but a TV movie,
mais un générique
but a generic
d'un téléfilm de TF1,
a TF1 telefilm,
c'est pire que
It's worse than
notre marathon.
Our marathon.
Après,
Then,
tu peux faire
you can do
des bons feel good movies,
good feeling good movies,
mais je ne sais pas
But I don't know.
si tu feel good après.
If you feel good later.
Ah bah si,
Oh, yes,
tu feel good quand même.
You still feel good.
Au bout de 12 feel good.
At the end of 12 feel good.
Non,
No,
mais tu feel good
but you feel good
un peu moins sur la fin.
A little less on the end.
t'as fait le coup D quand même.
You did D anyway.
À un moment,
At some point,
tu te dis,
You're thinking,
bon par contre,
good on the other hand,
on peut avoir,
We can have,
vous l'avez fait Stun
you did Stun
ou pas vous ?
Or not you?
Ah voilà,
There you go.
maintenant,
Now,
on se redétend un petit peu.
We're going back a little bit.
Non mais on va mettre ça en place.
No, but we're gonna set this up.
D'accord.
Okay.
Si tu veux regarder
If you want to watch
plus que des comédies
more than comedy
ou plus que des films d'horreur,
or more than horror movies,
sachant que t'as un peu le droit
knowing you have a little right
un peu les deux,
A little bit of both,
t'as quand même le droit
you still have the right
à Yves-Elder.
Yves-Elder.
Ouais,
Yeah,
t'as plein de films d'horreur
You got a lot of horror movies.
qui sont drôles.
That's funny.
Tu choisirais des films d'horreur ?
Would you choose horror movies?
Bah du coup,
So,
des films d'horreur.
Horror movies.
Ouais.
Yeah.
D'accord.
Okay.
parce que j'ai les deux.
Because I have both.
Alors que des pures comédies,
While pure comedy,
rarement de l'horreur dedans.
Rarely horror in it.
Ok.
Okay.
Il y a des super comédies,
There are great comedies,
mais pas toujours
but not always
avec de l'horreur dedans.
with horror in it.
Taxi.
Taxi 2.
Taxi 3.
Très bon.
Very good.
Dans le 4,
In 4,
il y a Stallone.
There's Stallone.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Dans le 5,
On the 5th,
il n'y a plus Samina Sery.
There's no more Samina Sery.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
c'est pas mal aussi.
It's not bad too.
Moi,
Me,
c'est un peu ma passion
It's kind of my passion.
dans les films,
in films,
c'est les films
It's the movies.
où il n'y a pas Samina Sery.
where there's no Samina Sery.
Ah bah ouais.
Oh, yeah.
Du coup,
So,
tu dois être content
You must be happy.
parce qu'il y en a quand même plus
because there's still more
où il n'y a pas Samina Sery.
where there's no Samina Sery.
Méfie-toi.
Beware.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
ça fait longtemps
It's been a while.
que je n'ai pas vraiment
I don't really have
poncé le cinéma français.
The French cinema.
Non,
No,
mais pas que français.
But not just French.
Dans Citizen Kane,
In Citizen Kane,
il y a une petite apparition.
There's a little appearance.
Il est dans Citizen Kane.
He's in Citizen Kane.
Ils ont remasterisé le film.
They remastered the movie.
Ah la vache.
Oh, my God.
C'était la dernière volonté
It was the last will
d'Orson Welles avant de mourir.
Orson Welles before he died.
Ah bah je vais le revoir alors
Well, I'll see him again then.
pour le chercher dans un plan.
to look for him in a plan.
Si ça se trouve,
If it happens,
c'est un peu isolé quoi.
It's a little isolated what.
Non,
No,
non,
il a un monologue.
He has a monologue.
Mais putain,
But fucking,
je suis passé totalement à côté.
I totally missed it.
C'est très bon.
It's very good.
Ah bah vraiment,
Oh, really,
je le revois.
I'll see him again.
Très bizarre.
Very weird.
On revient donc
So we're back.
avec nos charmants protagonistes,
with our charming protagonists,
protagonistes.
protagonists.
Donc là,
So here,
Jocelyne,
Joukouille,
Jokuille,
attends Joukouille,
Wait for Jokuille,
Henri la rejoint sur scène.
Henri joins her on stage.
Il lui prend les mains
He takes his hands
et une lumière blanche apparaît
and white light appears
qui fait disparaître
that makes it disappear
la chanteuse d'un coup,
the singer at once,
donc Jocelyne,
So Jocelyne,
pour la remplacer
to replace
par l'homme mystérieux
by the mysterious man
du tout début du film
from the very beginning of the film
dont tu n'as pas parlé.
That you didn't mention.
Mais tu te souviens,
But you remember,
il y a un gars
There's a guy.
qui actionne des leviers
which operates levers
au tout début du film.
At the very beginning of the film.
Eh bah l'homme pustule,
Well, the pustule man,
bien sûr j'en ai parlé.
Of course I talked about it.
Ah mais oui,
Oh, but yes,
tu ne disais pas
You didn't say
qu'il actionnait des leviers.
He was acting levers.
J'ai dit,
I said,
il actionne un levier,
it operates a lever,
ce qui fait disparaître.
Which makes you disappear.
Il y a trois leviers devant lui.
There are three levers in front of him.
Mais il n'actionne que un.
But it only operates one.
Mais j'ai parlé de levier,
But I said leverage,
qui faisait disparaître
that made it disappear
le spermatozoïde.
The sperm.
Enfin,
Finally,
ce qu'on a analysé
what we analyzed
comme le spermatozoïde.
Like the sperm.
J'avais mis le parasite.
I put the parasite on.
Oui, le parasite,
Yes, the parasite,
exact.
Right.
Bon bah,
Good, well,
tu l'avais appelé l'homme pustule.
You called him the pustule man.
Le dégueu à la fenêtre
The gross at the window
actionne un levier
Turns on a lever
et le parasite disparaît.
And the parasite disappears.
Ah, dégueu à la fenêtre.
Ah, gross at the window.
Oui.
Yes.
C'est pour ça,
That's why,
je n'avais pas...
I didn't...
L'homme pustule,
The pustule man,
ça lui va mieux je trouve.
I think he's feeling better.
Oui,
Yes,
mais il est à la fenêtre.
But he's in the window.
Mais il est à la fenêtre.
Alors,
So,
l'homme pustule à la fenêtre.
The man pustule at the window.
Donc,
So,
on revoit
See you again.
l'homme pustule à la fenêtre
man pustule at the window
du tout début du film.
from the very beginning of the film.
Là,
There,
coup de vent,
wind,
tramontagne,
je ne sais pas,
I don't know,
je ne me connais pas assez en vent.
I don't know enough about wind.
En vent,
Wind,
je connais trois types de vent.
I know three types of wind.
Moi,
Me,
tramontagne.
It's a tramontagne.
Mais c'est dire le vent en japonais.
But that is the wind in Japanese.
Kaze.
Voilà.
There.
Du coup,
So,
kamikaze.
Kamikaze.
Eh oui,
Yeah.
les fous du vent.
The wind freaks.
Les dieux du vent.
The gods of the wind.
Kamisama,
Kamisma,
c'est dieu.
God.
Alors,
So,
les dieux du vent.
the gods of the wind.
Ou le vent de dieu.
Or the wind of God.
Plus le vent de dieu,
The more the wind of God,
je pense.
I think so.
Ou surtout,
Or more importantly,
le con qui en a fait croire
the asshole who made it look like
que ça allait être un héros
He was gonna be a hero.
s'il se butait.
If he did.
Ça a marché.
It worked.
C'est peut-être des héros,
Maybe they're heroes,
mais ils sont bien morts.
But they're dead.
Ils sont morts.
They're dead.
On les embrasse.
We kiss them.
Franchement,
Honestly,
ils auraient dû vivre
They should have lived.
parce qu'il s'est passé
because it happened
trop de trucs bien
too much good stuff
après 1950.
After 1950.
Surtout au Japon.
Especially in Japan.
Mon gars,
Boy,
ils ont raté le Japon
they missed Japan
des années 80.
'80s.
C'était mortel.
It was deadly.
C'est vrai que c'était bien.
It was good.
Il y avait des animés de ouf.
There were ouf animations.
Et eux,
And they,
ils n'ont rien vu
They saw nothing
parce qu'ils étaient là.
Because they were here.
Le système économique,
The economic system,
il était au max et tout.
He was at the top and everything.
Après,
Then,
c'est peut-être un peu grâce à eux.
Maybe it's because of them.
Ou pas ?
Or not?
On ne saura pas.
We won't know.
En tout cas,
Anyway,
en enfer,
in hell,
ils doivent bien se foutre
They have to give a shit.
de leur gueule.
in their mouths.
On dit,
They say,
ça va ?
You okay?
Nous,
We,
on a rigolé.
We laughed.
T'imagines,
Imagine,
ils attendent les autres.
They're waiting for the others.
Alors,
So,
ça a servi ?
Did it help?
Non,
No,
pas vraiment.
Not really.
Mais bon,
But, well,
maintenant,
Now,
c'est fait de toute façon.
It's done anyway.
Mais c'était bien du coup après ?
But was it all right then?
Ouais,
Yeah,
t'as raté.
You missed.
Parce que moi,
Because I,
on m'a dit que ce serait super.
I was told it would be great.
En fait,
Actually,
il n'y a rien.
There's nothing.
Je suis dans une pièce vide.
I'm in an empty room.
Ouais,
Yeah,
c'est pas terrible,
It's not terrible.
le paradis.
Heaven.
J'espère que je suis un héros.
I hope I'm a hero.
Ouais,
Yeah,
c'est pas ouf.
It's not crazy.
Ah,
ok.
Okay.
Ah,
plus tard.
later.
Bon,
All right,
ça m'arrange parce qu'en fait,
It suits me because actually,
c'est cool que vous m'avez appelé kamikaze
It's cool you called me a suicide bomber.
parce qu'à la base,
because at the base,
moi,
Me,
j'ai juste un très mauvais pilote.
I just have a very bad pilot.
Mais au dernier moment,
But at the last moment,
j'ai dit,
I said,
en fait,
Actually,
j'ai pris du galon grâce à ça.
I've been getting a pair of stripes from this.
Je fais ça pour le Japon éternel.
I'm doing this for eternal Japan.
Par contre,
However,
j'ai une dernière question.
I have one last question.
Comment vous me parlez ?
How are you talking to me?
Par quel biais ?
By what means?
Ah,
c'est compliqué.
It's complicated.
C'est pas un point.
That's not a point.
En fait,
Actually,
il y a des lettres,
There are letters,
un verre.
One drink.
Allez,
Come on.
plus tard.
later.
Ah,
c'est con,
That's stupid.
putain.
Fuck.
t'imagines le gars qui s'écrase
You can imagine the guy who crashes.
parce qu'il est trop nul
because he's too lame
et au dernier moment,
and at the last moment,
il appelle l'armée.
He calls the army.
Au fait,
By the way,
les gars,
Guys,
je suis un putain de kamikaze.
I'm a fucking suicide bomber.
Et dites-le,
And say it,
dites-le à la panorale.
Tell the panoral.
Ah non,
Oh, no, no.
on n'a pas entendu.
We didn't hear.
C'est dommage.
That's too bad.
Il était juste nul
He just sucked.
en tant que pilote.
as a pilot.
Merci,
Thank you.
Yoshi.
Ah là là.
Here.
Donc,
So,
un pustule.
Pustula.
Oui,
Yes,
il est là.
He's here.
Donc,
So,
il est là.
He's here.
Il actionne encore des leviers.
It still operates levers.
Là,
There,
ça devient décousu,
It's getting loose,
mais pardon,
But I'm sorry,
c'est le film.
It's the movie.
C'est pas bon.
It's not good.
Donc,
So,
il y a un coup de vent
There's a wind blow
qui vient balayer
That comes sweeping
tous les vermatozoïdes
all vermatozoids
et soudain,
and suddenly,
derrière un rideau rouge,
behind a red curtain,
ça,
This,
c'est un motif récurrent
It's a recurring pattern.
chez Lynch,
Lynch,
le rideau rouge.
The red curtain.
On le retrouve
We find him.
dans la plupart
in most
de ses futures œuvres.
of his future works.
Apparaît,
Appears,
ce que j'ai appelé moi,
what I called myself,
tu me diras toi
You'll tell me
comment tu l'interprètes,
how you interpret it,
je l'ai appelé
I called him.
un arbre plante à roulettes.
A tree is rolling.
C'est parfait.
It's perfect.
Bon,
All right,
c'est vraiment un arbre plante
It's really a tree plant
qui est sur des roulettes,
who is on wheels,
messieurs dames.
Ladies.
Qu'est-ce que je voulais
What did I want?
qu'on vous dise ?
Are you being told?
On ne peut pas dire plus que ça.
You can't say more than that.
Donc,
So,
voilà.
There.
Et en plus,
And besides,
c'est cool.
It's cool.
c'est agréable à dire,
It's nice to say,
je trouve,
I think,
arbre,
tree,
c'est dur à dire,
It's hard to say,
par contre.
However.
Agréable mais dur.
Nice but hard.
Arbre plante à roulettes.
Tree with rollers.
Voilà,
There you go.
donc vous voyez le film
So you see the movie
et si vous avez
and if you have
une autre interprétation,
another interpretation,
avec plaisir.
With pleasure.
Donc,
So,
Henri,
il voit l'arbre plante à roulettes,
he sees the tree rolling plant,
je vais le dire bien,
I'll say it right,
et il n'aime pas trop,
And he doesn't like it too much,
ça panique un peu.
It freaks out a little.
En fait,
Actually,
même ça panique beaucoup
Even it panics a lot.
parce qu'il voit ce truc-là
because he sees that thing
et là,
and there,
d'un coup,
suddenly,
sa tête,
his head,
elle se retrouve végétée
it is vegetated
avec son corps.
with his body.
Elle se retrouve au sol
She's on the ground.
et à la place de sa tête,
and instead of his head,
il y a le bébé.
There's the baby.
En fait,
Actually,
il y a le,
There is,
enfin,
Finally,
que sa tête.
than his head.
Donc,
So,
c'est-à-dire,
that is,
à la place de la tête d'Henri,
instead of Henry's head,
il y a la tête du bébé
There's the baby's head
avec un cou un peu allongé.
with a slightly elongated neck.
C'est ça.
Right.
Ce qui devient un peu marrant
Which gets a little funny
parce que tu as une tête
because you have a head
donc de tortue,
So turtle,
chelou,
Chew,
agneau,
lamb,
sur un corps,
on a body,
sur un corps avec une cravate
on a body with a tie
et en costume.
and in suit.
C'est un peu rigolo.
It's a little funny.
Les enfants sont tous là
The kids are all here.
pour nous remplacer.
to replace us.
Oui.
Yes.
Le bit de Jerry Sutton.
Jerry Sutton's bit.
Ils sont mignons,
They're cute,
ils sont là pour
They're here for
prendre notre place,
take our place,
tout simplement.
Quite simply.
Ils sont cuillots,
They're clots,
t'es tout.
You're everything.
Non,
No,
d'abord,
first,
ils prennent notre argent
They take our money
puis ils prennent là où on habite
Then they take where we live
puis ils nous remplacent.
Then they replace us.
Alors que là,
While there,
il n'est même pas cute,
He's not even cute,
Franklin,
en plus.
Plus.
Non,
No,
non,
non.
No.
Ça veut dire vraiment,
That really means,
on vous déteste la nouvelle génération
We hate you the next generation
en général.
In general.
Ne l'oubliez jamais.
Never forget it.
Donc,
So,
évidemment,
Of course,
il y a du sang partout par terre
There's blood all over the floor.
sinon c'est pas rigolo
Or it's not funny.
à côté de la tête.
next to the head.
Ça va pas fort
It's not good.
mais heureusement,
But fortunately,
la tête d'Henri,
Henry's head,
elle passe finalement
She finally passes
à travers le sol
through the ground
qui s'est transformée en eau
turned into water
parce que c'est plus pratique
because it's more convenient
et elle vient atterrir
and she comes to land
devant son immeuble.
In front of his building.
Alors,
So,
elle n'est pas très bien faite,
It's not very well done,
la tête.
head.
Non.
No.
Mais bon,
But, well,
c'était dur à faire une fausse tête
it was hard to make a fake head
à l'époque.
back then.
Après,
Then,
en plus,
in addition,
on ne sait pas si,
We don't know if,
en fait,
Actually,
est-ce qu'une tête
is a head
décorrélée de son corps
decorated with his body
qui se retrouve au sol
found on the ground
elle ressemble à une tête humaine ?
Does she look like a human head?
Oui,
Yes,
puis c'est un monde bizarre
then it's a weird world
peut-être que dès que ta tête,
Maybe as soon as your head,
effectivement,
indeed,
elle n'a plus d'âme,
she has no soul,
elle se pétrifie
She's petrifying
comme si,
as if,
elle a une tête bizarre.
She's got a weird head.
D'autant plus que je te rappelle
All the more so as I call you back
que le plancher
floor
se transforme en eau
turns into water
qui vient ensuite
which comes next
faire tomber la tête
drop your head
devant son immeuble
in front of his building
alors qu'on n'est pas forcément là.
when we're not necessarily here.
On pardonne.
We forgive.
Après,
Then,
moi,
Me,
j'étais juste dans le B.A.B. cinématographique
I was just in the movie B.A.B.
où il avait peu de thunes,
where he had little money,
c'est dur de faire une fausse tête.
It's hard to make a fake head.
C'est dur de faire une super...
It's hard to do a great...
Surtout avec peu de budget,
Especially with little budget,
effectivement.
Yes.
Donc,
So,
elle est devant son immeuble
She's in front of her building.
par terre
on land
et là,
and there,
il y a un enfant
there's a child
qui passe
passing
qui vole
flying
cette tête
that head
qui traînait par là
who was hanging around
parce que...
Because...
Après,
Then,
elle n'est à personne.
It's nobody's.
Non,
No,
elle est à celui
It is to the
qui la prend.
who takes it.
Voilà,
There you go.
il ne la vole pas,
He doesn't steal it,
il la prend.
He's taking it.
Il la vole...
He steals it...
C'est vrai.
That's right.
Tu voles une tête
You're stealing a head.
si je te prends ta tête sur toi,
If I get your head on you,
je t'ai volé ta tête.
I stole your head.
Mais s'il y a une tête par terre...
But if there's a head on the floor...
Ah,
mais mon corps,
but my body,
il est peut-être en train
Maybe he's on his way.
de chercher ma tête.
to look for my head.
Après,
Then,
peut-être la tête,
Maybe the head,
elle appartient à la famille.
She belongs to the family.
Bah,
Well,
ouais.
Yeah.
Après,
Then,
moi,
Me,
c'est comme un portefeuille.
It's like a wallet.
Je vois une tête,
I see a head,
je la rends.
I'll give it back.
Non,
No,
mais en plus,
But besides,
bon,
All right,
je prends une tête,
I'm taking a head,
admettons,
Let's admit,
je ne vais pas la voler.
I'm not gonna steal it.
Mais à un moment,
But at some point,
tu demandes un peu à des gens,
You ask people a little,
est-ce que vous avez vu quelqu'un...
Have you seen anyone...
Est-ce que vous avez perdu votre tête ?
Did you lose your mind?
Vous avez vu un gars sans tête ?
Did you see a headless guy?
Ou un gars avec une tête chelou ?
Or a guy with a crappy head?
Peut-être que ce n'est pas sa vraie tête
Maybe it's not his real head.
parce qu'en fait,
because in fact,
la vraie tête,
the real head,
elle est là.
She's here.
J'avoue,
I confess,
j'avoue.
I confess.
Là,
There,
lui,
he,
il court directement.
He's running straight.
C'est un peu du vol
It's a little flying.
parce qu'il court un peu,
Because he's running a little,
quoi.
What.
Non,
No,
mais il court
but he runs
et puis surtout qu'il va l'emmener
And most of all, he'll take her away.
à des gens
to people
que ça a l'air d'intéresser.
It seems to be interesting.
Donc voilà.
So here you go.
Mais parce qu'il doit être au courant
But because he must know
qu'une tête humaine chelou,
that a human head,
ça doit payer au moins
It has to pay at least
six mois de pato.
Six months' pato.
Ce qui est ouf,
What's crazy,
c'est que ce n'est pas sa première tête.
It's not his first head.
À qui ?
Who?
Au gamin ?
The kid?
Bah oui,
Yeah.
parce qu'on raconte ce qui va se passer.
'Cause we're telling what's going to happen.
Alors...
So...
Parce que direct,
Because direct,
il va voir des gens.
He's going to see people.
Oui,
Yes,
mais peut-être qu'il file
but maybe he's running
plein de trucs bizarres.
Lots of weird stuff.
Là,
There,
peut-être que c'est sa première tête,
Maybe it's his first head,
on n'en sait rien.
We don't know.
En tout cas,
Anyway,
là,
There,
cette tête,
that head,
il a tout de suite dit
He said right away
« Oh,
"Oh,
cette tête,
that head,
je sais où l'emmener. »
I know where to take him. »
C'est un peu comme un pawn shop.
It's kind of like a pawn shop.
Là où il va,
Where he goes,
tu sais.
You know.
Il dit « Ah ouais,
He says, "Oh yeah,
fais voir ta tête. »
Let's see your head. »
C'est un peu basique,
It's a little basic,
cette tête.
That head.
Voilà,
There you go.
j'en ai vu plein.
I've seen plenty.
Là,
There,
tu t'es dit,
You said,
j'ai acheté plein de jeux vidéo.
I bought a lot of video games.
Donc dès que je vais quelque part,
So as soon as I go somewhere,
j'essaie de trouver
I'm trying to find
le premier cache convertible,
the first convertible cache,
le premier.
First.
Et donc,
And so,
c'est tous les mêmes,
It's all the same,
les gars,
Guys,
des jeux vidéo.
video games.
Un peu gros,
A little big,
tête de geek,
Geek's head,
jamais agréable.
Never nice.
On parle mal aux gens.
We don't talk to people.
J'en ai vu 4 ou 5 cette semaine,
I've seen four or five this week,
donc je le sais.
So I know.
Mais ce n'est pas tout le temps le même.
But it's not always the same.
Ce n'est pas tout le temps le même.
It's not always the same.
T'es sûr ?
Are you sure?
C'est un peu les mêmes.
It's kind of the same.
Et genre,
And like,
il y a beaucoup de gamins qui viennent
There are a lot of kids coming
et j'ai entendu…
And I heard...
Et les touches,
And the keys,
non ?
No?
Dans l'arrière boutique.
In the back of the shop.
Non,
No,
non.
No.
Alors là,
So there,
après,
then,
au prix des jeux,
at the price of the games,
je pourrais.
I could.
Mais j'ai vu,
But I saw,
c'est beaucoup de conversations,
It's a lot of conversations,
de gars qui essaient de vendre des trucs
guys trying to sell stuff
et les gars qui disent
And the guys who say
« Ouais,
"Yeah,
c'est de la merde ton truc. »
It's fucking your thing. »
Ils dénigrent
They denigrate
parce qu'ils ne veulent pas lâcher d'autres.
Because they don't want to let go of others.
Même s'ils s'étaient bien,
Even if they were good,
ils ne diraient pas.
They wouldn't say.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
même s'ils voient une pièce
even if they see a room
qui vaut 2000 balles
which is worth 2000 balls
et que l'autre,
and the other,
tu sens s'il sait ce que c'est ou pas,
You feel if he knows what it is or not,
ils vont dire ça
They're gonna say that.
« Je peux t'en donner 20. »
"I can give you 20. »
Ce n'est pas très agréable.
It's not very pleasant.
D'ailleurs,
Besides,
j'ai vu une vidéo,
I saw a video,
une fois,
once,
d'un mec
of a guy
qui…
who...
C'était les émissions d'Oction
It was Oction emissions.
aux Etats-Unis.
in the United States.
Enfin,
Finally,
j'ai juste vu la vidéo sur Instagram.
I just saw the video on Instagram.
Les enchères.
The auction.
Ouais, voilà.
Yeah, there you go.
Pour les flancophones.
For the flankers.
Mais donc,
But so,
le mec,
the guy,
il vient vendre ça à un GI
He's selling this to an GI.
qui avait acheté une Rolex
who bought a Rolex
dans les années 70.
in the 1970s.
Pas mal.
Not bad.
Et le mec lui dit,
And the guy tells him,
en gros…
Basically...
Deux dollars.
Two dollars.
Il fait comprendre,
He makes it clear,
petit à petit,
Little by little,
je sens qu'il a la plus belle pièce
I feel he has the most beautiful room
jamais vue
Never seen
et qu'il va lui donner
and he'll give it to him
800 000 dollars.
$800,000.
Oh !
Oh!
C'est bien 800 000 dollars.
That's 800,000 dollars.
Ouais, ouais.
Yeah, yeah.
Ça te fait chierrer
It pisses you off.
parce que d'un côté,
because on one side,
tu te dis
You think
« Ah, ce pauvre GI,
"Oh, this poor GI,
là, maintenant,
There, now,
il n'avait plus de thunes et tout.
He had no money and everything.
Toute sa vie change.
His whole life changes.
Et l'autre,
And the other one,
c'est comme une merde. »
It's like shit. »
Il lui dit juste
He just tells her
« Ta pièce est magnifique,
"Your room is beautiful,
c'est super ce que tu as et tout. »
That's great what you got and everything. »
Ça fait du bien.
It feels good.
Bah, bien sûr.
Well, of course.
Tu vois que les connards
You see, assholes.
qui rachètent
Buying back
le Grammy Awards
Grammy Awards
de Pete Doherty
by Pete Doherty
et qui voulaient s'acheter de l'eau.
And who wanted to buy water.
C'est une vraie histoire, ça.
That's a real story.
De quoi ?
About what?
C'est une vraie histoire,
It's a real story,
Pete Doherty,
il est allé vendre ses Grammys
He went to sell his Grammys.
ou ses conneries comme ça
or his bullshit like that
pour pouvoir s'acheter des roues.
So you can buy some wheels.
Mais non !
No!
À Londres,
In London,
il y a des mecs
There are guys.
qui lui ont repris pour que…
who took him back so that...
« Hé, t'as vu,
"Hey, you saw,
j'ai un Grammy
I have a Grammy
et pas toi ! »
And not you! »
Des joueurs NBA
NBA players
qui ont vendu des bagues
who sold rings
et tout,
and all,
c'est de la déchéance, quoi.
It's about decay.
Putain !
Fuck!
Mais comment t'as pu être champion NBA
But how could you be NBA champion?
et te retrouver à la rue ?
And meet you on the street?
Bah, parce que
Well, because
déjà,
already,
il y avait moins d'argent,
There was less money,
mais ouais,
But yeah,
la drogue…
Drugs...
Putain !
Fuck!
Ouais,
Yeah,
mais donc t'en es au stade…
But so you're at the stadium...
Ah, c'est dur !
Oh, that's hard!
Avec nos vieilles affiches
With our old posters
du point virgule.
point.
Avec qui ?
With whom?
Non, non, non.
No, no, no.
Ah, voilà.
There you go.
Nous,
We,
si jamais ça marche plus,
If it ever works again,
c'est fini.
It's over.
C'est les chaussettes
It's the socks.
qu'on utilisait avec Yacine !
We used it with Yacine!
Celle-ci !
This one!
Cette sveuchette-là,
That skewer,
c'est celle d'Hitler
It's Hitler's.
dans l'épisode d'Hitler.
In Hitler's episode.
Attends,
Wait.
reviens,
Come back,
je te donne un ongle,
I'll give you a nail,
si tu veux,
If you want,
de moi,
of me,
non ?
No?
C'est un micro
It's a microphone.
qui a été touché
which has been affected
par Jamel à l'époque.
by Jamel at the time.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Qui ?
Who?
Jamel.
Ah, tu le connais pas ?
You don't know him?
Bah oui,
Yeah.
parce que toi,
Because you,
t'es trop jeune.
You're too young.
Je mets la main dans la poche.
Put my hand in the pocket.
Mesdames et mesdames,
Ladies and Ladies,
tu vois pas ?
Don't you see?
T'es pas marrant !
You're not funny!
Mais attends,
But wait,
un sandwich,
sandwich,
t'es un sandwich,
You're a sandwich,
tu vois ?
See?
Non,
No,
il faut,
We have to,
nous,
we,
vraiment,
Really,
mais quelque part,
But somewhere,
c'est positif.
That's positive.
Il faut qu'on soit tout le temps
We have to be all the time.
sur le qui-vive.
on the quiver.
Nous,
We,
on va jamais s'embourgeiser
We're never gonna get stuck.
parce qu'on n'a pas le temps
because we don't have time
de s'embourgeiser.
to become more modest.
On n'a pas le luxe
We don't have luxury.
de s'embourgeiser,
to become more modest,
nous.
us.
Et c'est peut-être pas mal,
And maybe it's not bad,
au moins,
at least,
ça se trouve,
It turns out,
on sera marrant encore
We'll be fun again.
dans 10,
in 10,
20 ans.
20 years.
C'est bon,
It's okay,
t'as quel âge ?
How old are you?
Moi,
Me,
j'ai 46,
I have 46,
là.
There.
Il nous reste 20,
We have 20,
30 ans à tenir.
30 years.
C'est bien déjà,
That's good already,
on a fait...
We did...
Si on ne chope pas de cancer.
If we don't get cancer.
Ouais,
Yeah,
ouais.
Yeah.
Franchement,
Honestly,
c'est un bon score déjà.
It's a good score already.
Mais limite,
But limit,
ça serait pas mal.
That wouldn't be bad.
On dirait,
Looks like,
au moins,
at least,
j'aurais jamais...
I would never...
Louis Siké,
il a une blague comme ça
He's got a joke like that.
où il dit,
where he says,
franchement,
Frankly,
plus je vieillis,
the older I get,
d'un côté,
on one side,
ça me saoule,
I'm getting drunk.
d'un autre côté,
on the other hand,
je me dis,
I'm thinking,
en fait,
Actually,
quand j'étais jeune,
When I was young,
je me dis,
I'm thinking,
putain,
Fuck,
il faut tenir.
We have to hold.
Il faut que je ne sois pas
I must not be
clochard pendant les 50 prochaines années.
For the next 50 years.
Et là,
And there,
il dit,
He says,
franchement,
Frankly,
j'ai déjà fait pas mal du chemin.
I've already made a lot of progress.
Il ne me reste plus que 20 ans
I only have 20 years left
à ne pas être clochard.
Not being a tramp.
Ça va.
It's okay.
Mais il a raison.
But he's right.
Franchement,
Honestly,
c'est vrai,
That's right,
on a fait...
We did...
Même là,
Even there,
moi,
Me,
si demain,
If tomorrow,
Trump,
il appuie sur le mauvais bouton,
press the wrong button,
moi,
Me,
je me dis,
I'm thinking,
c'est pas grave.
It's okay.
J'ai bien profité,
I enjoyed it,
moi.
Me.
J'ai gagné le jeu déjà,
I won the game already,
moi.
Me.
Ouais,
Yeah,
pareil,
the same,
les gens,
people,
ils me parlent de ce qu'il faut faire
They tell me what to do
pour vraiment réussir et tout.
to really succeed and everything.
J'ai dit,
I said,
mais bon,
But good,
j'ai 37,
I have 37,
j'ai commencé à taffer à 24.
I started tagging to 24.
Ce taf,
This job,
c'était topito,
It was topito,
je n'ai jamais fait un métier normal.
I never did a normal job.
Si ça s'arrête là
If it stops there
et que pendant déjà 13 ans,
and that for already 13 years,
j'ai fait que des blagues,
I only made jokes,
c'est déjà pas mal.
It's not bad already.
Déjà,
Already,
réussir dans ce métier,
succeed in this profession,
ça veut dire vivre de ce métier.
It means living in this business.
On s'en branle après.
We'll get off after that.
Évidemment,
Of course,
c'est mieux si tu as des millions
It's better if you have millions.
parce que tu peux faire d'autres choses.
Because you can do other things.
Mais là,
But now,
t'en vis bien,
you live well,
vous ne pouvez même pas savoir
you can't even know
dans nos têtes
in our heads
à quel point c'est la teuf.
How much she's the girl.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
c'est bien.
That's good.
On vit de blagues,
We live with jokes,
ça n'a aucun sens.
It doesn't make any sense.
D'ailleurs,
Besides,
on ne veut vraiment pas
We really don't want to
que ça s'arrête.
It'll stop.
Il ne faut jamais que ça s'arrête.
It must never stop.
Venez voir nos spectacles,
Come and see our shows,
ils sont super.
They're great.
Non,
No,
mais on ne sait rien faire d'autre.
But we can't do anything else.
Non,
No,
pour de vrai.
For real.
Puis on deviendra violent.
Then we'll get violent.
Voilà,
There you go.
si ça s'arrête,
If it stops,
on ne va pas être content.
We're not gonna be happy.
Moi,
Me,
je vais chez vous.
I'm going to your house.
Moi,
Me,
je vous cogne.
I'll hit you.
Je m'en fous de toute façon.
I don't care anyway.
Quitte à mourir,
Quit dying,
autant être en tôle
as much as being in sheet metal
et bouffer de la bouffe correcte
and eat proper food
que de manger des rats.
that of eating rats.
Ce n'est pas grave.
It's okay.
Ah,
je vais me faire violer aussi.
I'm gonna get raped too.
Non,
No,
non,
tu seras vieux.
You'll be old.
Ouf.
Oh, my God.
Ouais,
Yeah,
mais ils vont dire
but they'll say
c'est l'autre,
It's the other one,
la Jamel Koïdik,
Jamel Kopidik,
viens,
Come,
on le viole.
We rape him.
Mais non,
But no,
les gars,
Guys,
viens,
Come,
on le viole.
We rape him.
Allez,
Come on.
on le viole.
We rape him.
Je suis là,
I'm here,
vraiment,
Really,
je suis là.
I'm here.
ça devient violent.
It's getting violent.
Oui,
Yes,
tais-toi,
Shut up,
toi,
You,
c'est bon.
It's okay.
Je crois que j'ai fait un viol.
I think I had a rape.
Allez,
Come on.
c'est bon,
It's okay,
on ne viole jamais là.
We never rape there.
On ne viole que des gens
We only rape people
pas connus,
not known,
viens violer quelqu'un de connu
Come and rape someone known
pour une fois.
For once.
Mais je dis,
But I say,
on a violé hier,
We raped yesterday,
on a violé en entière,
We raped the whole thing,
on ne viole pas tous les jours.
We don't rape every day.
Franchement,
Honestly,
s'il viole,
if he rapes,
ça devient la routine,
It becomes routine,
moi j'arrête.
I'm done.
C'est moins marrant.
It's less fun.
Non,
No,
et hier,
and yesterday,
il voulait,
He wanted,
on a baisé.
We fucked.
Ouais,
Yeah,
t'as raison.
You're right.
Non,
No,
il t'a fait plaisir,
He made you happy,
mais il ne voulait pas.
But he didn't want to.
Ah ouais ?
Yeah?
Ah bah j'étais là,
I was there,
ouais.
Yeah.
Tu sais,
You know,
quand tu pleures,
when you cry,
c'est que tu ne veux pas.
You don't want to.
C'était un viol alors ?
So it was rape?
Bah ouais.
Yeah.
Putain,
Fuck,
un viol,
rape,
tous les jours.
Every day.
Tu vois,
See,
c'est que de la routine.
It's just routine.
Si vous prenez le podcast
If you take the podcast
pile à ce moment,
pile at that moment,
il y a un contexte.
There's a context.
C'est des personnages.
They're characters.
C'est pas nous qui parlons.
We're not talking.
Dans une prison.
In a prison.
C'est deux persos.
It's two people.
Et dedans,
And inside,
dedans,
inside,
la victime.
The victim.
Exactement.
Exactly.
Et il y a des viols.
And there's rape.
Mais c'est pas juste,
But it's not fair,
c'est pas nous qui discutons,
We're not talking.
c'est important de remettre
It's important to put it back
le contexte en place.
the context in place.
Alors donc,
So,
oui,
Yes,
qu'est-ce qu'il se passe ?
What's going on?
Oui,
Yes,
donc le gamin,
So the kid,
il l'amène à la réception
he takes her to the reception
d'une sorte d'hôtel.
Some kind of hotel.
Pour moi,
For me,
c'était un hôtel.
It was a hotel.
Un immeuble.
A building.
C'est quand il arrive
It's when he arrives.
à la réception.
at reception.
Bon,
All right,
on va dire un hôtel.
Let's say a hotel.
Et le directeur
And the director
l'amène à un autre gars.
Take him to another guy.
C'est la porte
It's the door.
qui était disponible
which was available
le jour où Lynch a filmé.
The day Lynch filmed.
Ouais,
Yeah,
ils se sont dit
They said
bah on va se servir de ça.
Well, we're gonna use this.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
on l'a maintenant.
We got it now.
Donc,
So,
il y a un autre gars
There's another guy.
qui regarde un peu la tête,
who looks a little at his head,
qui dit ok,
Says okay,
c'est une tête.
It's a head.
Pas mal.
Not bad.
dans la perceuse.
in the drill.
Donc,
So,
c'est ce qu'il fait.
That's what he does.
Il fait un trou
He makes a hole
dans le crâne à la perceuse.
in the drill skull.
Et alors,
And then,
je sais qu'il y a plein de gens
I know there's a lot of people
qui doivent se dire
who must say
qu'on invente depuis le départ.
We've been inventing since the start.
Franchement,
Honestly,
regardez le film.
Watch the movie.
Tout est vrai.
Everything's true.
Ils vont jamais le voir.
They're never gonna see him.
Alors que ce qui arrive en plus,
While what happens more,
c'est vraiment plus fort
It's really stronger.
que tout ce qui s'est passé depuis l'heure.
That's all that's happened since the time.
Le pire truc que tu peux faire
The worst thing you can do
pour vendre ce film,
to sell this movie,
c'est expliquer ce qui se passe devant.
It's explaining what's going on in front of you.
Franchement,
Honestly,
moi,
Me,
là,
There,
j'écoute le podcast,
I listen to the podcast,
j'ai pas vu le film.
I didn't see the movie.
C'est sûr,
Sure,
je le loue.
I'm renting it.
Maintenant que je sais
Now that I know
qu'on peut le faire,
that we can do it,
je le loue direct.
I rent it directly.
Donc,
So,
le trou dans le crâne,
the hole in the skull,
il a en fait servi
He actually served
à prélever
to be taken
comme une sorte de carotte
like some kind of carrot
du cerveau d'Henri.
Henry's brain.
C'est une espèce de cylindre.
It's a kind of cylinder.
J'ai mis une carotte
I put on a carrot.
parce que je trouve ça rigolo.
Because I think it's funny.
Une carotte du cerveau d'Henri
A carrot of Henry's brain
qui devient donc
which therefore becomes
la matière
material
d'une gomme
Of gum
posée au bout
placed at the end
de dizaines de crayons à papier
dozens of paper pencils
qui défile incessamment
which scrolls incessantly
sur une machine
on a machine
qui ne sert qu'à faire défiler
which serves only to scroll
des crayons à papier.
paper pencils.
C'est exactement ce qui se passe
That's exactly what's going on.
à la virgule près.
to the nearest comma.
Je vous jure que c'est vrai.
I swear to you, it's true.
Donc,
So,
l'employé
the employee
qui est là
which is there
en train de faire défiler
as you scroll
les crayons à papier
paper pencils
il fait un test
he's taking a test.
sur un bout de papier
on a piece of paper
de son carnet.
from his notebook.
Il fait un trait.
He's making a line.
Il tente de le gommer
He tries to erase it.
avec le crayon
with pencil
à base d'Henri.
from Henri.
Donc,
So,
la gomme,
gum,
gomme.
gum.
Le directeur,
The Director,
il paye en conséquence
he pays accordingly
le gamin
the kid
qui a tout de suite senti
who immediately felt
que cette tête
than that head
ferait des bonnes carottes à gomme.
Make good gum carrots.
Lui,
He,
il a eu le flair pour ça.
That's why he got a flair.
Et c'est normal.
And that's normal.
Et c'est normal
parce que ça s'avère
because it turns out
du coup véridique.
Of the real blow.
Ce n'est pas sa première tête.
It's not his first head.
Non,
No,
je pense qu'il devait se dire
I think he had to say
on sait très bien
We know very well.
comment on fait des gommes.
How you make gums.
C'est à base de tête.
It's a head start.
Et d'ailleurs,
And besides,
Eraserade,
du coup,
So,
c'est parce que
That's because
cette tête est devenue une gomme.
that head has become a gum.
Ah !
Ah!
Eraserade.
Putain !
Fuck!
Bah oui !
Yeah!
Tu ne l'avais pas ?
You didn't have it?
Même pas,
Not even,
je n'avais jamais réfléchi.
I never thought.
Sa tête,
His head,
c'est devenue une gomme.
It's become a gum.
Donc,
So,
Henri,
qui était en fait
who was actually
au lit à ce moment-là,
in bed at that time,
se réveille.
Wake up.
Il est...
He's...
Voilà,
There you go.
c'est pas trop.
It's not too much.
Le lit est vide,
The bed is empty,
il est habillé,
He's dressed,
il va taper à la porte
He'll knock on the door.
de la voisine,
the neighbour,
mais personne ne répond.
But nobody answers.
Donc,
So,
il retourne chez lui.
He's going home.
Et là,
And there,
le bébé se fout de sa gueule.
The baby doesn't care about his face.
Pour moi,
For me,
il se fout de sa gueule.
He's fucking kidding.
Il rigole,
He's laughing.
mais on entend vraiment...
But we really hear...
Vraiment,
Really,
il rigole,
He's laughing.
quoi.
What.
Il se fout de la gueule du père.
He doesn't care about the father.
Bon,
All right,
après,
then,
en même temps,
at the same time,
si le cerveau de ton daron,
If your daron brain,
il est fait en carottes
it is made of carrots
qui vont devenir des gommes,
which will become gums,
c'est une bonne vanne
It's a good valve.
même pour une tortue.
even for a turtle.
Franchement,
Honestly,
c'est plutôt marrant.
It's kind of fun.
Du coup,
So,
il fait quoi ?
What's he doing?
Il y a des rares blagues
There are rare jokes
que les tortues peuvent comprendre.
turtles can understand.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Après,
Then,
Franklin,
il n'est pas bête-bête.
He's not stupid.
Il a des rollers,
He's got rollers,
mais il n'est pas bête-bête.
But he's not stupid.
Du coup,
So,
le père,
the father,
il va s'allonger
He'll lie down.
parce que,
because,
bon,
All right,
ça fait quand même
It's still going on.
beaucoup de choses à gérer
a lot to manage
pour un homme
for a man
qui a mis autant de lac
who put so much lake
pour faire tenir sa coupe.
to hold his cup.
Donc,
So,
juste après,
right after,
il sort,
he's going out,
il voit la voisine,
He sees the neighbor,
la voisine qu'il a un peu,
the neighbor he has a little,
Ken,
qui se bécote avec un autre gars.
Who's fucking with another guy.
Un vieux horrible.
A horrible old man.
Un vieux pas très sexy.
An old, sexy step.
Bon,
All right,
Henry n'est pas non plus
Henry isn't either.
le Brad Pitt de ces dames.
Brad Pitt of these ladies.
Je sais,
I know,
mais c'est toujours la dichotomie
but it's still dichotomy
de si
of whether
le nouveau mec de ton ex
the new guy from your ex
que tu aimes bien encore,
that you still like,
tu veux qu'il soit
You want him to be
magnifique
beautiful
ou ignoble.
or ignoble.
Ou dégueulasse.
Or gross.
Et franchement,
And frankly,
les deux sont regrous.
Both are regrous.
Les deux ne marchent pas.
Both don't work.
Mais même s'il est moyen,
But even if he's average,
ça te vénère en fait.
It actually worships you.
Parce que tu te dis,
Because you're thinking,
il est comme moi.
He's like me.
Donc,
So,
pourquoi s'il est comme moi
Why if he's like me
prend quelqu'un d'autre ?
Take someone else?
S'il ne te ressemble pas du tout,
If he doesn't look like you at all,
tu dis,
You say,
tu me détestais.
You hated me.
S'il te ressemble de ouf,
If he looks like you,
tu dis,
You say,
mais c'est moi.
But it's me.
T'es débile,
You're stupid.
j'étais là depuis le début.
I've been here all along.
S'il est sublime,
If he's sublime,
tu te dis,
You're thinking,
ouais,
Yeah,
donc c'est parce que
So it's because
je suis dégueulasse.
I'm gross.
Et s'il est horrible,
And if he's horrible,
tu te dis,
You're thinking,
qu'est-ce qu'il est ?
What is he?
Donc,
So,
vraiment,
Really,
elle l'a trouvé vraiment
She really found it.
intéressant dans sa personnalité.
interesting in his personality.
Je suis une merde.
I'm a piece of shit.
Ouais.
Yeah.
T'es battu quoi qu'il arrive
You're beaten no matter what
si tu commences à penser comme ça.
If you start thinking like that.
Ou attends,
Or wait,
mais je ressemblais à ce gars.
But I looked like this guy.
Son genre de gars,
His kind of guy,
c'est ça ?
Is that it?
C'est ça son genre de gars.
That's his kind of guy.
Ah mais en fait,
Oh, but actually,
ouais,
Yeah,
ça ne pouvait pas coller entre nous,
It couldn't fit between us,
c'est obligé.
I have to.
Je ne comprends pas.
I don't understand.
Donc ouais,
So yeah,
le gars n'est pas terrible.
The guy's not terrible.
Donc,
So,
elle voit.
She sees.
Moi,
Me,
ma meuf,
My girl,
elle m'a dit,
She told me,
elle voudrait que ça lui ressemble.
She wants it to look like her.
Elle quoi ?
She what?
Elle préfère que ça lui ressemble.
She prefers it to look like him.
Mais pourquoi ?
But why?
Je ne sais pas.
I don't know.
Mais c'est con,
But it's stupid,
je suis sûr que ça l'énerve.
I'm sure he's upset.
C'est bizarre.
That's weird.
Tu te dis,
You're thinking,
mais qui t'a trompé quelqu'un ?
But who cheated on you?
Autant que ce soit quelqu'un
As much as it's someone
de différent de la personne à équiter.
different from the person to be equitated.
Oui.
Yes.
Non,
No,
mais elle aime bien.
But she likes it.
Si c'est le même physique.
If it's the same physics.
Oui,
Yes,
non,
No,
c'est aussi que c'était en mode
It was also in mode.
si je meurs avec taille,
If I die with size,
notre femme,
our wife,
elle veut que ça soit à peu près la même.
She wants it to be pretty much the same.
C'est trop con.
That's so stupid.
Eh tiens,
Here.
vous avez une conversation
you have a conversation
si je meurs avec taille.
If I die with size.
Elle ne s'empêche pas les couilles.
She doesn't stop her balls.
Elle ne peut pas se dire,
She can't say,
franchement,
Frankly,
tape-toi un mug,
Get a mug,
je m'en fous.
I don't care.
Mais tu ne connais pas les femmes.
But you don't know women.
C'est le truc qui les intéresse
That's the thing they care about.
le plus au monde.
Most in the world.
L'hypothétique nul.
The hypothetic sucks.
Attends,
Wait.
si je meurs,
if I die,
tu as le droit,
You have the right,
mais il faut qu'elle ait
But she has to have
au moins une varice.
At least one varicose vein.
Mais bien sûr,
But of course,
elle a mille contraintes.
She has a thousand constraints.
Après,
Then,
elle est américaine,
She's American,
donc ils sont particuliers.
So they're special.
Oui,
Yes,
mais voilà.
There you go.
Mais non,
But no,
elle aime bien
She likes it.
que ça lui ressemble.
It looks like him.
Par exemple,
For example,
si la fille des films
if the girl from the movies
que j'aime bien,
that I like,
c'est Scarlett Johansson,
It's Scarlett Johansson,
au moins,
at least,
elle est blonde
She's blonde.
et blanche
white
et c'est un peu elle.
And it's kind of her.
Quand je lui disais
When I told him
Monica Bellucci
ou Alberry,
or Alberry,
elle a dit
She said
mais ça n'a rien à voir avec moi.
But it has nothing to do with me.
Eh bien,
Well,
justement.
Exactly.
Oui,
Yes,
c'est ce que je pense.
That's what I think.
Et puis,
And then,
de toute façon,
Anyway,
les hommes n'ont pas de style.
Men have no style.
Ça,
That,
à chaque fois,
each time,
je dis,
I say,
ouais,
Yeah,
mais du coup,
But then,
je crois que c'est ton style.
I think that's your style.
Si je dis une Latina,
If I say a Latina,
elle dit,
She says,
ouais,
Yeah,
du coup,
So,
un jour,
One day,
tu vas avoir une Latina
You're gonna have a Latina.
et tu vas avoir envie
and you're gonna want to
de la baiser.
Fuck her.
Alors déjà,
So already,
oui,
Yes,
j'aurais envie de la baiser.
I'd like to fuck her.
Ce n'est pas la question.
That's not the point.
Donc,
So,
si il y a Jennifer Lopez
if there's Jennifer Lopez
dans son Prime
in his Prime
qui vient te voir
Who comes to see you
et qu'elle dit
and she says
on baisse,
We're down,
tu vas la baiser.
You're gonna fuck her.
Il ne faut jamais poser la question
Never ask the question
à un mec,
To a guy,
tu as envie.
You want to.
On a envie.
We want to.
C'est justement
It's just that
pour ça qu'on est bon.
That's why we're good.
Parce que vous,
Because you,
parce que nous,
because we,
on a envie
We want to
et on ne fait pas.
And we don't.
Et pourquoi on ne fait pas ?
And why don't we?
Parce qu'on ne peut pas.
Because we can't.
Parce qu'on a essayé.
Because we tried.
On a discuté des heures
We talked about hours.
et des heures.
and hours.
C'est sûr qu'on ne peut pas.
Sure we can't.
Non,
No,
on ne fait pas,
We don't,
même si c'était,
Even if it was,
mais la question,
but the question,
ce n'est pas envie ou pas,
It's not envy or not,
évidemment.
Of course.
C'est bien
That's good.
parce que tu n'as pas dit.
Because you didn't say.
Et vous savez
And you know
pourquoi on ne le fait pas ?
Why don't we?
Parce qu'on ne dit pas.
Because we don't say.
Parce qu'on aurait été
Because we would have been
encore différent.
Still different.
Et du coup,
And so,
c'est comme ça
That's how it is.
que ça marche.
It works.
Ok,
Okay,
on termine.
We're done.
Je ne sais plus.
I don't know anymore.
Il s'est passé beaucoup de trucs.
A lot happened.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
elle voit le gars.
She sees the guy.
Elle voit Henri.
She's seeing Henri.
Henri voit la meuf.
Henri sees the girl.
On est dans un épisode de bref.
We're in a short episode.
Donc Henri,
So Henri,
il est deg.
He's deg.
Ça se voit qu'il est deg.
It can be seen that he's deg.
Il se dit
He says
ah putain,
Fuck,
une meuf bonne.
A good girl.
Et donc vous qui êtes
And so you who are
dans bref,
in brief,
saison 2
season 2
et saison 1.
and season 1.
Tout à fait.
Absolutely.
Vous avez les cheveux attachés.
You have hair tied.
J'ai un look délétère,
I have a harmful look,
mais ce n'est pas grave.
But it's okay.
C'est un rôle à contre-emploi.
It's a counter-employment role.
Oui,
Yes,
mais ça,
But this,
c'est beau.
It's beautiful.
Parce que nous,
Because we,
on est forcés maintenant
We're forced now.
avec nos têtes
with our heads
et les bravo à Kian
and congratulations to Kian
qui voient au-delà
who see beyond
du chevelu
hair
parce que nous,
because we,
les rares fois
rare times
on nous propose des trucs,
We're offered things,
cruellement d'imagination.
cruelly imaginative.
Pour vous dire,
To tell you,
les acteurs connus,
known actors,
ils en sont au stade
They're at the stage.
à Hollywood
Hollywood
à dire aux gens
to tell people
franchement,
Frankly,
habillez-vous
Dress up
comme le part
as the part
quand vous y allez.
When you go.
Je pensais que c'était faux
I thought it was wrong.
et les mecs disaient
And the guys said
non,
No,
même des gars trop connus
Even guys too well known
genre Steve Boucherby
Like Steve Boucherby
ils disent
They say
ouais,
Yeah,
j'y vais en flic
I'm going as a cop.
comme ça je suis flic
So I'm a cop
et les mecs disent
And the guys say
ah ouais,
Yeah,
pour être flic
To be a cop
parce que c'est des débiles.
Because they're idiots.
C'est des teubèves.
It's teubèves.
C'est vrai.
That's right.
Malheureusement,
Unfortunately,
c'est vrai.
That's right.
C'est pour ça
That's why.
qu'on ne fait pas trop
that we don't do too much
de cinéma à Hollywood
in Hollywood
dernièrement
recently
parce qu'ils pensent à rien.
Because they don't think about anything.
Pour tout se m'habiller
To get all dressed up
en flic tout le temps.
As a cop all the time.
Moi,
Me,
j'ai un costume de Mario
I got a Mario suit.
et ben,
Well,
ils ne m'ont même pas pris
They didn't even take me.
dans le film d'animation
in the animated film
de la dernière fois.
Last time.
Je serais tellement bien
I'd be so good.
en Waluigi par contre.
in Waluigi, on the other hand.
Bien sûr,
Of course,
je serais un Waluigi extraordinaire.
I would be an extraordinary Waluigi.
T'as mes mecs.
You got my guys.
Mais bien sûr.
Of course.
Halloween,
fais-toi Waluigi.
Make yourself Waluigi.
Waluigi.
En plus,
Plus,
j'adore le violet.
I love purple.
Alors,
So,
le violet.
purple.
Non,
No,
non,
le violet,
purple,
la couleur.
the color.
Oui,
Yes,
oui,
le violet.
purple.
Oui,
Yes,
oui,
non,
No,
pas le violet Waluigi.
Not the purple Waluigi.
Oui,
Yes,
mais en vrai,
But actually,
tu t'attaches bien les cheveux
You're holding your hair tight.
ou te fais le chapeau.
Or make your hat.
C'est un très bon Waluigi.
He's a very good Waluigi.
J'en parlais.
I was talking about it.
OK.
Okay.
J'en parlais à Nintendo.
I was talking to Nintendo about it.
Je ferais Wario.
I'd do Wario.
OK,
Okay,
vas-y,
Go on,
mortel.
mortal.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
putain,
Fuck,
viens,
Come,
on fait un cosplay
we do a cosplay
dans Wario,
in Wario,
moi,
Me,
Waluigi.
C'est sûr,
Sure,
on gagne des prix.
We win prizes.
Waluigi,
on gagne des prix.
We win prizes.
Donc,
So,
ouais,
Yeah,
elle,
she,
bon,
All right,
gêne,
discomfort,
tout le monde s'est vu.
Everyone saw each other.
Elle,
She,
elle a vu que
She saw that
Henri l'avait vu
Henry had seen him.
avec un autre gars.
With another guy.
Allez,
Come on.
tout le monde est gêné.
Everyone's embarrassed.
Du coup,
So,
Henri dit,
Henri says,
ah,
vas-y,
Go on,
je retourne m'enfermer
I'm going back to lock myself up.
chez moi.
Home.
Et qu'est-ce qu'il fait,
And what's he doing,
du coup ?
So?
Eh bien,
Well,
il décide de craquer,
He decides to crack,
tout simplement.
Quite simply.
Il voit son bébé.
He sees his baby.
Il se dit,
He says,
ah,
tu sais quoi ?
You know what?
Le bébé,
The baby,
le corps,
body,
les bandelettes,
strips,
là.
There.
Ouais,
Yeah,
c'est bon.
It's okay.
Allez,
Come on.
vas-y,
Go on,
on va regarder
Let's watch.
sous les bandelettes.
Under the strips.
Bon,
All right,
qu'est-ce qu'il y a
What is it?
sous les bandelettes ?
Under the strips?
Bah,
Well,
fallait pas regarder
You didn't have to look.
sous les bandelettes,
under the strips,
mec.
Dude.
Vraiment,
Really,
c'est pas terrible.
It's not terrible.
Plus ou moins exactement
More or less exactly
ce qu'on pensait,
What we thought,
quand même.
Still.
Ah,
pire,
worse,
c'est une sorte
It's a kind of
de corps difforme,
Of deformed body,
un peu sanguinolent.
A little bloody.
Ouais,
Yeah,
mais tu pensais à quoi ?
But what were you thinking?
Alors,
So,
oui,
Yes,
d'accord,
Okay,
mais je voyais pas
But I couldn't see.
le cœur qui bat,
the beating heart,
vraiment,
Really,
à ciel ouvert,
open air,
quoi.
What.
Ou vraiment,
Or really,
tu te dis,
You're thinking,
ah ouais,
Yeah,
non,
No,
c'est pas une bonne idée
It's not a good idea.
de l'avoir maintenu en vie,
to have kept him alive,
ce truc,
This thing,
en fait.
Actually.
Alors que son visage
While his face
était déjà un bon indice
was already a good clue
pour se dire,
To say,
peut-être qu'il faut en finir.
Maybe we have to finish it.
Très bonne preview.
Very good preview.
Du coup,
So,
Henri,
qu'est-ce qu'il fait ?
What's he doing?
Bon,
All right,
bah,
Yeah,
il plante des ciseaux dedans
he plants scissors in it
parce qu'il dit,
Because he says,
si je plante des ciseaux dedans,
If I plant scissors in it,
normalement,
normally,
ça va s'arrêter.
It'll stop.
Et c'est marrant,
And it's funny,
l'humain,
human,
c'est beau
it's beautiful
parce qu'on est un peu triste.
Because we're a little sad.
Bah ouais,
Yeah,
franchement,
Frankly,
il y est pour rien,
It's not his fault,
Franklin.
Surtout,
Above all,
il a l'air de le regretter
He seems to regret it.
immédiatement.
immediately.
Parce que c'est pas gentil
Because that's not nice.
de tuer des gens.
to kill people.
Ouais,
Yeah,
mais le sien surtout,
But especially his,
c'est ça le truc.
That's the thing.
Après,
Then,
je pense qu'il va quand même
I think he's still going.
faire un test de paternité
taking a paternity test
pour dire,
I mean,
bon,
All right,
c'était pas le mien,
It wasn't mine,
c'est pas grave.
It's okay.
Ouais,
Yeah,
ouais,
mais quand même,
But still,
il y a un petit truc
There's a little thing.
et c'est vrai
And it's true
que du coup,
that,
tu te dis,
You're thinking,
si j'avais un truc
if I had something
difforme horrible,
horrible deformity,
et ben,
Well,
je l'aimerais quand même
I'd love it anyway.
forcément,
Of course,
c'est obligé.
I have to.
Et puis en plus,
Plus,
je pense que quand tu deviens parent,
I think when you become a parent,
il y a un truc
There's something.
qui s'actionne en toi
who works in you
que tu peux pas contrôler.
that you can't control.
Et presque plus de compassion
And almost more compassion
pour un truc faible.
for something weak.
Faible et pourri
Low and rotten
parce que là,
because there,
c'est vraiment un truc
It's really something.
qui sert à rien.
It's useless.
C'est sûr que si t'accouches
Sure if you give birth
de Stallone,
of Stallone,
adulte,
adult,
tu vas te dire,
You're gonna think,
bon,
All right,
ça sert à rien,
It's useless.
il va s'en sortir sur moi,
He's gonna be okay with me,
il va se démerder.
He's gonna get out of here.
Ben ouais,
Yeah,
il va trouver des fringues déjà.
He'll find clothes already.
On va se poser d'autres questions.
We're gonna ask ourselves more questions.
Il va faire cliffhanger d'eau
He's gonna make water cliffhanger.
dans la foulée,
in the footsteps,
à mon avis.
I think so.
Donc là,
So here,
ça devient différent.
It's getting different.
Mais c'est vrai que c'est marrant
But it's true it's funny.
parce que pendant tout le film,
because throughout the film,
t'es là,
You're here,
mais bute-le,
but kill him,
et là,
and there,
non,
No,
mais pourquoi ?
But why?
En fait,
Actually,
c'est triste.
It's sad.
Ça prouve qu'on a une belle nature humaine.
It proves we have a beautiful human nature.
Ouais,
Yeah,
c'est vrai.
That's right.
Et ça,
And this,
c'est important.
It's important.
Donc,
So,
ben oui,
Yes,
le bébé,
the baby,
il crache du sang et il meurt.
He spits blood and dies.
Ça,
That,
c'était parti pour.
It was gone for.
Ouais,
Yeah,
c'est bien,
That's good,
comme de la purée
like puree
qui s'évacue fortement.
which evacuates strongly.
En vrai,
Actually,
beaucoup,
a lot,
comme du pu,
as if of the pu,
mais plus mousseux.
but more sparkling.
Ouais,
Yeah,
ouais.
Yeah.
Un peu plus mousseux
A little more sparkling
et en grosse quantité.
and in large quantities.
Et aussi,
And also,
ça devient un peu une girafe
It becomes a little giraffe.
parce que son cou s'allonge.
Because his neck is lying down.
C'est ça.
Right.
Un peu,
A little,
vraiment,
Really,
ce qu'aurait pu donner,
what could have been given,
j'ai avec du dessin animé
I got cartoons.
Tortue,
Turtle,
Girafe,
Tortue,
Turtle,
Girafe,
pour ceux qui connaissent.
for those who know.
Amtaro et Tortue,
Amtaro and Turtle,
Girafe.
Je suis dans les dessins animés aujourd'hui.
I'm in the cartoons today.
T'as vu que des dessins animés
You only saw cartoons.
que personne ne l'a vu.
Nobody saw him.
Quoi,
What,
Tortue Ninja ?
Turtle Ninja?
Tortue Ninja.
Turtle Ninja.
Ah, d'accord.
All right.
Là, c'est Tortue Girafe.
This is Turtle Girafe.
D'accord,
Okay,
je n'ai plus que Tortue Girafe
I only have Turtle Girafe
était un vrai truc.
was a real thing.
Non, Tortue Girafe.
No, Turtle Girafe.
Alors,
So,
ne me piquez pas Tortue Girafe.
Don't steal from me Turtle Girafe.
Ça y est,
That's it.
j'ai envie de faire un dessin animé
I want to make a cartoon
qui s'appelle Tortue Girafe.
Named Turtle Girafe.
Soyez sympa.
Be nice.
Le cerveau patate,
The potato brain,
il est de retour.
He's back.
Avec désormais.
With now.
Ils ont un long cou.
They have a long neck.
Et c'est quoi leur maître ?
And what is their master?
Alors,
So,
ce n'est pas un rat ?
Isn't that a rat?
Ah ben non,
Oh, no, no.
il faut que ce soit
It has to be
un autre truc encore décalé.
Another thing that's out of date.
Un dauphin.
A dolphin.
C'est une loutre.
It's an otter.
Une loutre.
An otter.
Du coup,
So,
ce n'est pas Splinter,
It's not Splinter,
c'est Oyster.
It's Oyster.
C'est l'huître.
It's the oyster.
C'est une huître loutre.
It's an oyster otter.
Oh,
c'est dur.
It's hard.
Vous avez dit
You said
huître loutre,
Otter oyster,
plein de voix ?
Full of voices?
Huitre loutre,
Eighth otter,
huitre loutre,
otter,
c'est comme panier piano.
It's like a piano basket.
C'est bien,
That's good,
huître loutre.
Otter oyster.
Comme la belle cool,
Like the pretty cool,
l'abeille cool.
cool bee.
L'abeille cool.
The cool bee.
Essayez chez vous,
Try home,
vous allez voir,
You'll see,
ça ne va pas marcher.
It's not gonna work.
Et après,
And then,
vous allez dire un truc rigolo.
You're gonna say something funny.
Oui,
Yes,
parce que ça fait la belle couille.
'Cause it's a pretty big deal.
Et vous pourrez le dire au collège
And you can tell the college.
parce que c'est sûr,
because it's for sure,
c'est notre public normalement.
It's our audience normally.
Tous les collégiens nous écoutent.
All students listen to us.
Et même que si on tape
And even if we type
sur la caissilotte
on the tank
pour faire soleil,
to make the sun,
non,
No,
elle baise.
She's fucking.
Elle baise.
Notre vie est nulle.
Our life sucks.
Donc,
So,
il y a le cerveau patate du début
there's the potato brain from the beginning
qui revient
coming back
avec désormais
with now
un énorme trou
a huge hole
en plein milieu.
Right in the middle.
Puce-tu le mâle,
Stitch the male,
donc l'homme au levier
So the man at the lever
du début,
from the beginning,
il semble avoir
he seems to have
du mal à les actionner.
Hard to operate them.
Ça donne moins en moins de sens.
It makes less sense.
Bah oui,
Yeah.
mais c'est le jeu,
But this is the game,
c'est le film qui est comme ça.
This is the movie.
Donc,
So,
il essaie d'actionner les leviers,
He's trying to activate the levers,
mais c'est dur,
But it's hard,
mais il n'y arrive pas.
But he can't.
Bon,
All right,
il galère.
It's a mess.
Henri,
il se retrouve sans prévenir,
He finds himself unannounced,
baigné dans une immense
bathed in a huge
lumière blanche aveuglante
blinding white light
avec la dame au radiateur
with the lady with the radiator
qui est là.
Who's here.
Elle le prend dans ses bras.
She takes him in her arms.
Enfin,
Finally,
merci la vie,
thank you for life,
quoi.
What.
Bravo.
Oh là là.
Oh, there.
Oh mais non,
Oh, but no,
je voudrais le bonbon.
I'd like candy.
t'es planté.
You're planted.
Non.
No.
Mais putain,
But fucking,
il y en a quatre,
There are four,
mec.
Dude.
Là,
There,
c'est bon.
It's okay.
Mais c'est nul.
But it sucks.
Vas-y,
Go ahead.
redis.
Say again.
C'est fini.
It's over.
Merci la vie.
Thank you.
Putain.
Fuck.
Ah,
ça va,
It's okay,
ça va.
It's okay.
C'est bon,
It's okay,
je l'ai.
I got it.
Refait.
Do it again.
C'est fini.
It's over.
Merci la vie.
Thank you.
Oui.
Yes.
Bravo David Lynch.
Je voulais la pluie.
I wanted the rain.
Bravo David Lynch.
C'était bien.
That was good.
Non,
No,
vraiment,
Really,
matez-le.
Check it out.
Moi,
Me,
je le pense sincèrement.
I mean it.
Là,
There,
effectivement,
indeed,
on a fait plein de blagues autour
We made a lot of jokes around
et la description est un peu effrayante
and the description is a little scary
au premier abord.
At first glance.
C'est un vrai film à voir.
It's a real movie to see.
C'est une expérience,
It's an experiment,
c'est une performance,
It's a performance,
c'est un happening d'une heure et demie.
It's an hour and a half happening.
Essayez de trouver un vieux ciné qui va le passer.
Try to find an old movie that's gonna pass it.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
si vous le voyez en salle.
If you see him in the room.
Alors,
So,
organisez ça avec des copains,
arrange it with friends,
parce que tout seul,
because by myself,
devant votre écran,
in front of your screen,
avec votre téléphone,
with your phone,
c'est impossible.
It's impossible.
Vous ne le regarderez pas.
You won't look at him.
c'est trop lent,
It's too slow,
c'est trop bizarre.
It's so weird.
C'est vraiment un truc qui a été fait pour être vu.
It's really something that was made to be seen.
Vous n'avez pas le choix,
You have no choice,
quoi.
What.
Dites-vous que voilà,
Tell you what,
le film a explosé à l'époque dans des cinémas
the film exploded at the time in cinemas
qui le passaient à minuit.
that passed at midnight.
C'est exactement comme ça qu'il faut le voir
That's exactly how you should see him.
dans une atmosphère feutrée.
in a felted atmosphere.
Plein de gens,
Lots of people,
voilà,
There you go.
peut-être alcoolisés.
Maybe alcoholized.
À côté de toi,
Next to you,
entendre des...
Listen to...
Voilà,
There you go.
parce que là,
because there,
t'es dedans après.
You're in after.
Oui,
Yes,
c'est sûr que s'il repasse dans un cinéma,
I'm sure if he goes back to a movie,
j'irais le voir.
I'll go see him.
Moi,
Me,
pareil.
Same.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
aller voir tout Lynch,
go see all Lynch,
c'est fabuleux.
It's fabulous.
Et en vrai,
And actually,
je pense que ça a été fait pour le cinéma.
I think it was made for the movies.
C'est vrai qu'en fait...
It's true that...
Mais Lynch faisait des films pour le cinéma uniquement.
But Lynch made films for film only.
Mais tout le côté...
But the whole side...
C'est vrai qu'on parlait du début
It's true we were talking about the beginning.
des films
of films
qui se ressemblent un peu tous.
They all look a little alike.
Moi,
Me,
je comprends,
I understand,
il y a des films à la télé,
There are movies on TV,
ils n'ont aucun intérêt.
They have no interest.
Enfin,
Finally,
tu vois,
See,
à la télé avec un téléphone,
on TV with a phone,
tu ne peux pas regarder ça.
You can't watch this.
Mais de toute façon...
But anyway...
Tu ne peux pas être immergé dans le truc.
You can't be immersed in the thing.
Tu ne peux pas être...
You can't be...
Il faut que tu sois dans le noir.
You have to be in the dark.
Il faut que tu sois...
You have to be...
Il ne faut que tu n'aies pas le choix de le voir,
You must not have a choice to see him,
quoi.
What.
Le cinéma,
The cinema,
ça a été fait pour le cinéma,
It was made for the cinema,
en fait.
Actually.
Pardon d'être un ayatollah.
Sorry to be an ayatollah.
Les gens
People
qui regardent des films
Watching movies
sur les téléphones,
on phones,
la peine de mort.
the death penalty.
Non,
No,
mais parce que
But because
même un ordi,
even a computer,
en vrai,
Actually,
pas la peine de mort,
not the death penalty,
mais 20 ans de tôle.
But 20 years of sheet metal.
Non,
No,
mais c'est relou.
But it's new.
C'est fait pour être vu sur des...
It's made to be seen on...
Au moins,
At least,
une télé un peu grosse,
a little big TV,
quoi.
What.
S'il vous plaît.
Please.
Pas un téléphone.
Not a phone.
Alors,
So,
il y a un gars
There's a guy.
qui avait dit un truc vrai.
who said something real.
Je ne l'aime pas.
I don't like him.
Je ne sais pas qui c'est,
I don't know who he is,
mais je ne l'aime pas.
But I don't like him.
Non,
No,
mais il dit que proportionnellement.
But he says proportionally.
Oh,
proportionnellement.
proportionally.
Et donc,
And so,
tu ne vois pas du tout
you don't see at all
tout le décorum
the whole decorum
qu'il y a autour.
There's around.
Et tu n'es pas troublé
And you're not troubled.
par des bruits,
noise,
de la voiture,
of the car,
n'importe quoi.
Anything.
Non,
No,
mais ça,
But this,
oui,
Yes,
non,
No,
mais après,
But then,
si tu es dans le train
if you're on the train
et que tu veux mater un film,
And you want to watch a movie,
tu peux mater un film,
You can watch a movie,
tu vois.
See.
Mais ce n'est pas la peine
But you don't have to.
de le mater pour la première fois.
to look at him for the first time.
Alors,
So,
dans ces cas-là,
in these cases,
mate un divertissement.
watch entertainment.
C'est ça.
Right.
Mate un film,
Watch a movie,
mate un truc un peu vite fait
Check something a little fast done
que tu pourrais voir dans un avion.
you could see on a plane.
Non,
No,
mais c'est ça.
But that's it.
Mais des gens qui matent
But people watching
des grands films
great films
sur des putains de téléphones,
on fucking phones,
mais les gars,
But guys,
je ne sais pas quoi vous dire.
I don't know what to tell you.
En fait,
Actually,
le problème,
the problem,
c'est qu'après,
That's after,
en parler.
Talk about it.
En parler ?
Talk about it?
C'est juste qu'après,
It's just after,
s'il me parle
if he talks to me
comme s'il avait vu le film,
Like he saw the movie,
il ne l'a pas vraiment vu.
He didn't really see it.
Non,
No,
il ne l'a pas vraiment vu.
He didn't really see it.
Mais bon,
But, well,
c'est comme tout.
It's like everything.
Il y a des trucs
There's stuff.
qui vaut mieux.
Which is better.
En vrai,
Actually,
la comédie,
comedy,
j'ai un pote,
I have a friend,
je l'emmène beaucoup
I'm taking her a lot
dans les comédies clubs
in comedy clubs
et il me dit,
And he tells me,
ah ouais,
Yeah,
en vrai,
Actually,
ce n'est pas le même délire.
It's not the same delusion.
Évidemment que ce n'est pas
Of course it's not
le même délire.
the same delusion.
Ce n'est pas du tout
It's not at all.
le même délire.
the same delusion.
Ça, c'est encore différent
That's still different.
pour le coup.
for the job.
La comédie,
Comedy,
c'est encore un truc à part,
It's another thing.
je trouve.
I think so.
Pour le coup,
For the moment,
les gens ne se rendent pas compte.
People don't realize.
Ils se disent,
They say,
ah,
j'ai vu une vidéo de ce gars,
I saw a video of this guy,
je le trouve nul
I think he sucks.
ou le contraire.
or otherwise.
Et en vrai,
And actually,
vous ne penserez pas du tout
you will not think at all
la même chose,
the same,
en fait.
Actually.
Je ne sais pas comment vous le dire,
I don't know how to tell you,
mais c'est vrai.
But it's true.
Je pense qu'il vaut mieux
I think it's better
ne pas voir un film
not to see a movie
dans de mauvaises conditions
in poor conditions
que de le voir
than to see it
dans ce que j'appelle
in what I call
des mauvaises conditions
poor conditions
parce que ça ne rendra
because it won't make
jamais hommage au film.
Never pay tribute to the movie.
Si tu vois un film
If you see a movie
sur un téléphone
on a phone
alors que c'est un bon film,
While it's a good movie,
non,
No,
tu ne le vois pas vraiment,
You don't really see him,
en fait.
Actually.
Tu vois autre chose.
You see something else.
C'est ce que je dis.
That's what I'm saying.
Tu vois avec un oeil fermé
You see with a closed eye
et on te met des patates.
And they put potatoes on you.
Ce n'est pas la même chose,
It's not the same thing,
quoi.
What.
Il y a des films,
There are films,
il faut les voir au cinéma.
You have to see them in the movies.
Et ce n'est pas comme si
And it's not like
on vous disait,
You were told,
il faut aller au cinéma
We have to go to the movies.
tous les jours,
every day,
mais au moins certains trucs,
But at least some things,
déplacez-vous, quoi.
Move.
Oui, oui,
Yes, yes,
pour les films récents.
for recent movies.
Ah oui, oui,
Oh yes, yes,
mais même pour les films récents,
but even for recent films,
il y a des trucs mortels.
There are deadly things.
C'est quoi le dernier truc
What's the last thing?
bien que tu as vu ?
Although you saw it?
Oh putain,
Oh fucking,
là tu me prends
Here you take me.
des pourvus en plus.
additional staff.
The Brutalist au cinéma,
The Brutalist at the cinema,
c'était fabuleux.
It was fabulous.
Je ne l'ai pas encore vu.
I haven't seen him yet.
Fabuleux.
Fabulous.
Je ne l'ai pas encore vu,
I haven't seen him yet,
je voulais le voir.
I wanted to see him.
Ça dure plus de 3h30,
It lasts more than 3:30,
il y a un entraque de 15 minutes,
There's a 15 minute block,
mais qui est hyper malin
but who is super smart
et ça te permet même
and it even allows you
de créer du lien
create a link
avec des genres.
with genres.
Ce n'est pas du tout prévu,
It's not planned at all,
c'est trop bizarre.
It's so weird.
The Brutalist,
c'est monstrueux.
It's monstrous.
Ah, je l'aurais dû aller le voir.
Ah, I should have gone to him.
Très grand film.
Very big movie.
Mickey 17,
je ne l'ai pas encore vu,
I haven't seen him yet,
il faut que j'allez le voir.
I have to go see him.
Moi, j'y vais.
I'm going.
Bon, alors,
Well, then,
il faut qu'on conclue.
We have to close.
Allez, on conclue.
Come on, let's close.
Que je me casse.
Let me get out of here.
Écoutez,
Look,
note de fucked up,
Fucked up note,
note de film,
film note,
et puis sinon,
and then if not,
sur le film,
on the film,
on a dit tout ce qu'on...
We said everything we...
Franchement,
Honestly,
fucked up,
Fucked up,
9 sur 10.
9 out of 10.
Franchement, oui.
Frankly, yes.
Oui, oui.
Yes, yes.
Et avec des petits moyens
And with little means
fucked up,
Fucked up,
c'est-à-dire pas besoin
i.e. no need
de grand-chose.
much.
Non.
No.
C'est vraiment...
It's really...
Juste dans la mise en scène
Just in the staging
par moment,
at times,
et même juste le son.
and even just the sound.
Le son te met
The sound puts you on
dans un truc
in something
très fucked up.
Very fucked up.
Très important,
Very important,
le son.
sound.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
l'ambiance sonore
the sound atmosphere
est primordiale.
is paramount.
Et puis,
And then,
note de film,
film note,
après, ouais...
Then, yeah...
Vas-y, toi en premier.
Go first.
Note de fucked up,
Fucked up note,
ouais,
Yeah,
8 et demi,
81⁄2,
quand même.
Still.
Peut-être pas 9,
Maybe not 9,
parce que bon,
'Cause good,
voilà,
There you go.
mais bon.
But good.
Et après,
And then,
note de film,
film note,
ça dépend
Depends
de l'importance du film.
the importance of the film.
Est-ce que c'est un plaisir
Is it a pleasure?
de voir ce film ?
to see this movie?
Pas tout le temps,
Not all the time,
quand même.
Still.
On va pas se mentir.
We're not gonna lie to each other.
C'est pour ça
That's why.
que la note est intéressante.
the note is interesting.
Mais ça reste un très bon film.
But it's still a very good film.
Moi, je mets 8.
I'll put on eight.
Ouais,
Yeah,
je mets 7 et demi.
I'll put in seven and a half.
Moi, je mets 8
I'll put 8
parce que, justement,
because, precisely,
c'est une pierre fondatrice
It's a founding stone.
de ce que va devenir
of what will become
ensuite
then
l'œuvre de Lynch,
the work of Lynch,
que c'est une véritable expérience
that it is a real experience
et que c'est aussi
and it's also
quelque chose
something
que t'as jamais vu,
that you've never seen,
que tu ne verras plus jamais.
You'll never see again.
Non, ça, c'est sûr.
No, that's for sure.
Effectivement,
Indeed,
c'est pas feel good après.
It's not feel good after.
Mais le cinéma,
But cinema,
c'est ça aussi,
That's it, too.
c'est ressortir
It's coming out.
avec des émotions,
with emotions,
qu'elles soient bonnes ou mauvaises.
Whether good or bad.
Et là,
And there,
tu ressors avec des émotions.
You come up with emotions.
Après,
Then,
plus je vieillis,
the older I get,
plus je comprends
the more I understand
les gens qui se disent
People who say
je veux voir un truc
I want to see something
qui me fait me sentir bien.
that makes me feel good.
Ça, je comprends.
I understand that.
Non, mais ça,
No, but this,
je l'entends tout à fait.
I can hear it perfectly.
Et d'ailleurs,
And besides,
si t'as vraiment peur de ça,
If you're really afraid of that,
c'est pas pour rien
It's not for nothing.
que notre podcast,
that our podcast,
c'est les films
It's the movies.
que vous ne pouvez pas voir,
which you cannot see,
vous pouvez les entendre.
You can hear them.
Oui, oui, je sais.
Yeah, yeah, I know.
Mais moi,
But me,
je pense qu'une émotion au cinéma,
I think a movie emotion,
c'est plus important
It's more important
que le reste,
the rest,
qu'elle soit bonne ou mauvaise.
Whether it's good or bad.
En fait,
Actually,
tu ne peux pas sortir
You can't go out.
des Razorades en disant
Razorades saying
ouais, sympa.
Yeah, nice.
Ou bof.
Or bof.
Je veux dire,
I mean,
le film,
the film,
il a obsédé les gens.
He's obsessed with people.
C'est-à-dire qu'il y avait
That is, there was
des critiques qui l'ont adoré,
critics who loved him,
il y en a qui l'ont détesté.
Some people hated him.
Bien sûr,
Of course,
il y a des gens
There are people
qui ont essayé d'écrire des thèses,
who have tried to write theses,
il y a des gens
There are people
qui ont essayé
who tried
de comprendre le film.
to understand the film.
Le film,
The film,
il ne peut pas te laisser indifférent.
He can't leave you indifferent.
C'est impossible.
That's impossible.
Et tu ne peux surtout pas dire
And you can't say
bon,
All right,
enfin bon,
Well, finally,
j'en ai vu 12,
I saw 12,
des comme ça.
Like this.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Là, c'est impossible, gars.
That's impossible, man.
Ou alors, tu dis,
Or you say,
montre-les-moi.
Show them to me.
Avec plaisir.
With pleasure.
Ce n'est pas vite fait.
It's not done fast.
Et puis, non.
And then, no.
C'est un objet d'art, en fait.
It's an art object, actually.
Trop important
Too important
dans l'histoire du cinéma.
in the history of cinema.
Et alors,
And then,
je n'ai pas toute la table
I don't have the whole table.
de parler de Kubrick,
to talk about Kubrick,
mais j'avais une petite...
But I had a little...
Petite liste
Small list
des gens
People
qu'il a pu influencer.
that he may have influenced.
Ouais,
Yeah,
carrément des mecs
Totally guys.
D'ailleurs,
Besides,
il a été...
He was...
Dans je ne sais plus
In I don't know anymore
quel institut,
what institute,
il fait partie des films
he's one of the films
qui sont préservés maintenant
which are preserved now
dans l'histoire du cinéma
in the history of cinema
aux Etats-Unis.
in the United States.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Qui font partie des pierres
Which are part of the stones
angulaires du cinéma pour eux.
Angular cinema for them.
Alors, il y a évidemment
So there's obviously
la base,
the base,
beaucoup de gens
many people
qui se barraient
who were walking away
en regardant le film.
watching the movie.
Il y a eu plein d'anecdotes.
There's been a lot of anecdotes.
Et à l'époque,
And then,
il s'est fait descendre
He got shot.
par la critique au début.
by the critic at the beginning.
Tout le monde a dit
Everyone said
c'est monstrueux,
It's monstrous,
c'est abominable.
It's abominable.
Le final,
The final,
il est dégueulasse.
He's gross.
Il y a même des gens,
There are even people,
des journalistes
of Journalists
qui disaient
who said
qu'il essayait de rentrer
that he was trying to get home
dans les pas
in the footsteps
d'Hershon Gordon-Lewis
of Hershon Gordon-Lewis
qui est le pape du gore,
who is the pope of the gore,
le mec qui a fait
the guy who did
One Thousand Maniacs,
qui a inventé quelque part
who invented somewhere
le gore dans les années 60.
Gore in the '60s.
Alors que lui,
While he,
il n'était pas du tout
He wasn't at all.
dans le gore.
in the gore.
Gratos, quoi.
Gratos.
Alors,
So,
Darren Aronofsky
cite Eraserhead
quotes Eraserhead
comme une inspiration majeure
as a major inspiration
pour Pi et Requiem for Dream.
for Pi and Requiem for Dream.
Evidemment.
Of course.
Selon lui,
According to him,
Lynch a montré
Lynch showed
qu'on pouvait créer
that we could create
un univers de folie,
a world of madness,
de peur,
fear,
sans explication claire.
without a clear explanation.
Les Wachowski
The Wachowskis
sont inspirés
are inspired
de Eraserhead
by Eraserhead
pour l'atmosphère étrange
for the strange atmosphere
déshumanisée
dehumanized
du monde des machines
of machinery
dans The Matrix.
In The Matrix.
Ils ont reconnu
They recognized
que Lynch leur avait appris
that Lynch had taught them
à créer des mondes
to create worlds
parallèles intenses.
intense parallels.
Ça ne va pas vous étonner
That's not gonna surprise you.
non plus.
Neither.
Yorgos Lantimos.
Ah, Lantimos.
Lobster.
Pour Fing.
For Fing.
Influencé sur la recherche
Influence on research
des tons absurdes
of absurd tones
et décalés.
and staggered.
Et ça, c'est vrai
And that's true.
qu'il y a des trucs...
There's stuff...
Il a exactement ce truc,
He has exactly this thing,
Lantimos,
de te mettre mal à l'aise
Make yourself uncomfortable
et de te faire marrer
and get laughed
avec le malaise.
with malaise.
Tout le temps.
All the time.
Surtout dans The Lobster.
Especially in The Lobster.
Les derniers sont un peu plus...
The last ones are a little more...
Remarque,
Note,
Kinds of Cadeney,
s'il y a aussi un peu de...
If there's also some...
C'est lui qui a fait
He did it.
Dog Tooth sur les gamins
Dog Tooth on kids
à qui on leur dit
to whom they are told
qu'un film,
a movie,
un mot,
a word,
ce n'est pas un autre mot.
It's not another word.
Qui est aussi un sketch
Which is also a sketch
de Golden Moustache
by Golden Moustache
mais dans un autre délire.
But in another delusion.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
je ne me souviens plus de ça.
I don't remember that anymore.
Je ne sais plus
I don't know anymore.
où Monsieur Poulpe
where Mr Poulpe
dit à des gens,
Tell people,
à des Roumains
to Romanians
que ça,
that,
ça veut dire ça.
That's what that means.
Ah mais oui,
Oh, but yes,
avec Bérangère.
with Bérangère.
Je me souviens
I remember.
de ce délire-là.
Of this delusion.
Gaspard Noé,
Gaspard Noah,
évidemment.
Of course.
Bon ben là,
Well, here,
on voit l'influence
We see the influence
beaucoup.
a lot.
Effectivement,
Indeed,
des gens qui n'ont pas fait
People who have not done
que du cinéma feel good.
It's just a feel good movie.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
là,
There,
il n'y a pas...
There's no...
Philippe Lachaud.
Il n'y a pas Lachaud
There's no Lachaud
qui dit
which says
moi,
Me,
quand j'ai fait
when I did
Nicky Larson,
j'ai tout de suite
I got it right now.
pensé à Razoray.
thought of Razoray.
Gaspard dit
Gaspard says
qu'il est
that he is
l'influencé
influence
pour sa capacité
for its capacity
à désynchroniser
Unsynchronized
le cerveau du spectateur
the viewer's brain
par des ambiances visuelles
by visual ambiences
et sonores perturbantes.
and disturbing sound.
Je pense qu'il y est arrivé
I think he did it.
pas mal dans
not bad in
Hunter the Void,
pas mal dans celui
not bad in that
et puis aussi
and then also
rapport difficile
difficult report
à personnalité
Personality
mon vieux Gaspard
old Gaspard.
parce que je vois
because I see
au moins deux films
at least two films
où un gars met des patates
where a guy puts potatoes
dans le ventre
in the belly
d'une femme enceinte.
a pregnant woman.
Ah bon ?
Right?
Ouais.
Yeah.
Lesquels ?
Which ones?
Seuls comptent tous déjà.
Only everyone already counts.
Ah oui, c'est vrai.
Oh, right.
Et celui où il y a
And the one where there is
l'un des derniers
one of the last
où ils prennent de la drogue
where they take drugs
et il y a des scènes de danse.
And there are dance scenes.
À un moment pareil,
At a time like this,
il y a une meuf enceinte
There's a pregnant chick
qui est franchement...
which is frankly...
C'est Hunter the Void ça ?
Is that Hunter the Void?
Non, c'est...
No, it's...
Climax.
Voilà.
There.
Lui, je l'ai vu au cinéma.
I saw him at the movies.
C'est bien Climax.
That's Climax.
J'en avais été malade.
I was sick of it.
Mais Gaspard Neuf...
But Gaspard Nine...
J'étais sorti,
I was out,
j'étais malade.
I was sick.
Plus réel.
More real.
Très bon réel.
Very good real.
Jan Zvankmeyer ?
Jan Zvankmeyer?
Non, je ne connais pas.
No, I don't know.
Maître de l'animation
Master of animation
en stop motion
stop motion
a vu dans Erasieret
seen in Erasieret
d'une oeuvre clé
a key work
pour l'exploration
Exploration
de l'horreur psychologique
psychological horror
et la manipulation.
and manipulation.
Mais d'ailleurs,
But by the way,
il y a de la...
There's some...
Si je ne dis pas de bêtises,
If I don't say anything stupid,
j'ai l'impression
I feel
qu'il y a des scènes
there are scenes
en stop motion
stop motion
dans Erasieret.
in Erasieret.
Oui, oui, sûr.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
Justement,
Exactly,
le ver de terre
earthworm
à un moment qui remonte,
at a time that goes up,
là, c'est très stop motion.
That's very stop motion.
Sûr, sûr.
Sure, sure.
Ça ressemble au truc
It looks like the thing.
des Monty Python,
Monty Python,
aux deux appâts,
both baits,
tu sais,
You know,
à ces époques-là.
At those times.
Ou les travaux
Or work
de Réarion d'un autre.
of another's Rearion.
C'est très flippant, putain.
It's very fucking scary.
Voilà.
There.
Écoutez,
Look,
c'était un bon retour.
It was a good return.
On a dû parler
We had to talk.
deux heures et demie.
Two and a half hours.
Moi, je le trouve...
I find him...
Voilà.
There.
Je suis content
I'm glad.
d'avoir pu enfin
at last
parler de Lynch.
Talk about Lynch.
Donc, hommage à Lynch.
So, tribute to Lynch.
Si vous voulez voir des films,
If you want to see movies,
je pense que le meilleur
I think the best
qu'il ait fait en mode
that he did in fashion
la frontière entre film normal
the border between normal film
et film chelou marrant,
And funny fucking movie,
c'est Blue Velvet pour moi.
It's Blue Velvet for me.
Je pense que c'est le son
I think it's the sound.
plus abordable.
more affordable.
Tu veux dire,
You mean,
le grand public
the general public
qui ne connaît pas
who doesn't know
vers lequel il pourrait
to which he could
faire une porte d'entrée ?
Make a front door?
C'est sûr que je conseillerais.
I'd certainly advise.
Ah non, moi non.
No, I don't.
Moi, pour faire rentrer
Me, to bring in
doucement dans l'univers
gently in the universe
de Lynch,
Lynch,
moi, je dirais
I'd say
Elephant Man.
Et Elephant Man,
And Elephant Man,
mais ça ne ressemble
But it doesn't look like
tellement pas aux autres
So much not to others
trucs de Lynch.
Lynch stuff.
Oui, mais justement,
Yes, but precisely,
tu sais,
You know,
tu te mouilles un peu la nuque.
You're getting a little wet on your neck.
Oui, mais...
Yes, but...
Après, c'est vrai que Blue Velvet,
Then it's true that Blue Velvet,
il est barré à plein moment.
He's out at full time.
Moi, j'aime Elephant Man.
I love Elephant Man.
Mais une histoire vraie,
But a true story,
c'est très classique pour le coup.
It's very classic for the coup.
Ah, mais j'ai le DVD,
Ah, but I have the DVD,
je l'ai trouvé très bien,
I found it very well,
je ne l'ai jamais vu.
I've never seen him.
C'est vraiment un road movie
It's really a road movie.
de frères,
brothers,
dont un très vieux
of which a very old
qui veut aller voir l'autre
who wants to see the other
parce qu'ils se sont embrouillés
Because they got confused
il y a longtemps
a long time ago
et il n'est pas bien
and he's not good.
et il se dit
and he says
j'ai envie de le faire
I want to do it.
en tracteur.
In tractors.
Et j'aime bien...
And I like...
Ah, mais c'est...
Oh, but it's...
Je veux.
I do.
C'est trop bien.
It's too good.
Et j'aime bien Wild at Heart,
And I like Wild at Heart,
c'est Laure et Loula en français.
It's Laure and Loula in French.
Ah, c'est Laure et Loula,
Ah, it's Laure and Loula,
c'est fabuleux.
It's fabulous.
Et après, moi,
And then, me,
bon, les films de Lynch,
All right, Lynch's movies,
j'en suis dingo.
I'm crazy about it.
Même Inland Empire,
Even Inland Empire,
il y a des trucs
There's stuff.
que je trouve formidaires dedans,
that I find formal in,
même si c'est un peu long.
Even if it's a little long.
Ah, je l'ai revu,
Ah, I saw him again,
j'ai vu, moi,
I saw,
j'ai vu...
I saw...
C'est lui avec les lapins ?
Is that him with the rabbits?
Oui.
Yes.
Je l'ai vu il n'y a pas longtemps.
I saw him not long ago.
Il y a des trucs formidables.
There are great things.
C'est chaud à voir.
It's hot to see.
La première heure,
The first hour,
elle est incroyable.
She's amazing.
Après, il y a des petits moments
Then there are small moments
où tu peux être un peu biaisé par...
where you can be a little biased by...
Non, mais il y a des trucs de ouf.
No, but there's some shit.
Mais moi, ce que...
But me, what...
Et le casting qu'il a,
And the casting he has,
les malades.
sick people.
Après, Melo en drive,
Then Melo drive,
ils se sont tous dit
They all said
on va tourner pour lui
We're gonna turn for him.
pour 4 francs.
For four francs.
De toute façon,
Anyway,
tout le monde voulait tourner pour Lynch.
Everyone wanted to shoot for Lynch.
Et en même temps,
And at the same time,
c'est lui qui a lancé
He's the one who launched it.
la carrière de Naomi Watts.
Naomi Watts' career.
Il a été incroyable
He was amazing.
pour beaucoup, beaucoup de gens.
for many, many people.
Et moi, ce que je préfère,
And I, what I prefer,
malgré tout,
Nevertheless,
chez Lynch,
Lynch,
parce que pour moi,
because to me,
c'est la plus grande série
It's the biggest show
de tous les temps,
of all times,
c'est Twin Peaks.
It's Twin Peaks.
Twin Peaks, saison 1,
Twin Peaks, season 1,
une partie de la saison 2.
part of season 2.
Il a moins participé
He was less involved.
à la saison 2
Season 2
parce qu'ils l'ont forcé,
because they forced him,
la NBC a forcé
NBC forced
à révéler
to be disclosed
qu'il avait tué Laura Palmer.
that he killed Laura Palmer.
Et il était là
And he was there.
en train de dire
saying
mais si on dit ça,
But if we say that,
les gens vont décrocher.
People will pick up.
C'était là, mais non.
It was there, but no.
Les gens,
People,
ils ont décroché une fois que...
They picked up once...
Oui, parce que
Yes, because
Twin Peaks,
il y a eu un malentendu
There was a misunderstanding
entre des gens.
between people.
Moi, je me souviens
I remember.
d'une...
of a...
Enfin, de gens
Finally, people
qui regardaient
watching
des sopes de base
basic sopes
et qui regardaient ça
And looking at it
comme si c'était un...
Like it's a...
En fait, le côté chelou,
Actually, the weird side,
ils n'entendiaient pas
they didn't hear
et ils aimaient bien
and they liked it.
le côté sope.
The sope side.
Parce qu'en fait,
Because actually,
c'est une parodie de sope.
It's a sope parody.
Oui, on joue sur les codes du sope
Yes, we play on the sope codes.
et le 2 devient clairement
and the 2 becomes clearly
beaucoup plus sope
much more sope
que la saison 1.
that season 1.
Ah ouais.
Yeah.
Parce que...
Because...
Mais on s'en fout
But we don't care.
parce que tu t'attaches
Because you're fastening
énormément au personnage.
a lot to the character.
Et la saison 3,
And season three,
20 ans après,
20 years later,
c'était bien.
It was good.
La saison 3 est incroyable.
Season 3 is amazing.
C'est ce que tout le monde
That's what everyone is.
m'a dit.
told me.
Un putain de croyable.
A fucking believer.
J'ai jamais vu.
I've never seen.
Je veux l'avoir.
I want to have it.
Et c'est 24 épisodes
And it's 24 episodes
d'une heure.
An hour.
Alors, dans le tas,
So, in the pile,
il y a des trucs
There's stuff.
qui vont vraiment
who really are going
te laisser sur le côté,
Leave you to the side,
c'est sûr.
Sure.
Mais t'as des moments
But you have moments
même pas de...
Not even...
En fait, c'est du cinéma
Actually, it's cinema.
à la télé.
On TV.
Et t'as le fameux épisode 7 ou 8.
And you have the famous episode 7 or 8.
Je crois que c'est le 7.
I think it's 7.
Mec, tu n'as jamais vu ça.
Dude, you've never seen this before.
Tu n'as jamais vu
You've never seen
dans l'histoire de l'art
in the history of art
un truc aussi baiser.
Something so fucked.
Et c'est incroyable.
And that's amazing.
En fait, c'est toujours
Actually, it's still
un truc que je me suis réservé
something I booked
en sachant que je sais
knowing I know
que c'est trop bien.
That's too good.
Je veux finir Twin Peaks.
I want to finish Twin Peaks.
D'ailleurs, il faut le faire
Moreover, we must do it.
dans l'ordre.
In order.
Si jamais vous voulez
If you ever want
vous le jeter là-dedans,
You throw him in there,
c'est un peu long,
It's a little long,
mais ça vaut vraiment le coup.
But it's really worth it.
Saison 1, saison 2,
Season 1, Season 2,
Firewall with Me,
c'est-à-dire le film
i.e. the film
de Twin Peaks.
Twin Peaks.
Et ensuite, saison 3.
And then season three.
C'est dans cet ordre-là
It's in that order.
dans la chronologie.
in the timeline.
Très bien.
All right.
Eh bien, écoutez,
Well, listen,
on a passé un très bon moment
We had a great time.
avec vous.
with you.
Oui.
Yes.
Enfin, vous n'étiez pas là,
I mean, you weren't there,
mais bon.
But good.
Mais vous êtes là
But you're here
et c'est ce qui compte
And that's what counts
dans vos oreilles.
in your ears.
On a une petite actu ?
Do we have a little act?
Moi, je joue...
I play...
Je vais annoncer des dates
I'll announce dates
très bientôt aux Républiques
very soon in the Republics
à Paris à partir de septembre.
in Paris from September.
Ah, trop bien.
Ah, too good.
Je joue à Nantes.
I'm playing Nantes.
Je joue à Strasbourg.
I play Strasbourg.
Je joue à Montréal.
I'm playing Montreal.
Je joue à Dessines,
I play Drawings,
près de Lyon.
near Lyon.
Voilà, ça ira.
All right, all right.
Donc, venez.
So, come on.
Toutes les places sont dispo
All places are available
sur urbainstandup.com.
on urbantandup.com.
C'est quand même pas très compliqué.
It's still not very complicated.
C'est super facile.
It's super easy.
Urbainstandup.
Urbanstandup.
Toutes les dates sont affichées.
All dates are displayed.
Il y a aussi
There is also
Podcasts House Live,
mais c'est demain.
But it's tomorrow.
L'épisode ne sera pas sorti,
The episode won't be out,
mais il reste
but it remains
des podcasts
podcasts
en tournée,
on tour,
Nantes,
Toulouse,
un peu partout.
All over the place.
Tous les autres podcasts,
All the other podcasts,
les podcasts de basket,
basketball podcasts,
plutôt caustique.
It's pretty caustic.
Podcasts aussi,
Podcasts too,
évidemment,
Of course,
tous les mercredis.
Every Wednesday.
Et Dedo,
And Dedo,
vous êtes au point virgule.
You're at comma point.
Je suis au point virgule.
I'm at comma point.
Là, maintenant,
There, now,
il va rester huit dates.
There will be eight dates left.
C'est les huit dernières
It's the last eight.
exceptionnelles
exceptional
de la fin de mon rodage
of the end of my rodage
de nouveaux spectacles.
new shows.
C'est tous les mercredis
It's every Wednesday
à 20h jusqu'au 28 mai
8pm until 28 May
à partir de tout de suite.
From now on.
Et puis après,
And then,
je ne reviens pas sur Paris
I'm not going back to Paris.
tout de suite.
Right away.
Je reviens avec le spectacle
I'll come back with the show.
terminé,
completed,
entre guillemets,
in quotation marks,
étiqueté comme ça.
labeled like that.
Fin d'année
End of year
au début 2026.
early 2026.
Donc, profitez-en.
So enjoy it.
C'est maintenant ou jamais.
It's now or never.
C'est bien au point virgule.
That's right at the point.
C'est mieux.
That's better.
C'est vraiment cool au point virgule.
It's really cool at comma point.
On est vraiment collés
We're really stuck.
les uns aux autres.
One another.
Je trouve ça super agréable,
I think it's super nice,
perso.
Personal.
Je joue sinon le,
If not, I play it.
je ne sais plus,
I don't know,
le 17 avril,
17 April,
je crois,
I think,
mais je ne sais plus où.
But I don't know where.
Mais je vais retrouver peut-être.
But maybe I'll find it.
Et le 15 mai
And on May 15
à Différedange
to Differedange
au Luxembourg,
in Luxembourg,
je fais trois exceptionnels
I make three exceptionals
à Avignon au festival
in Avignon at the festival
je ne sais plus quand,
I don't know when,
mais regardez,
But look,
vous verrez.
You'll see.
Et puis,
And then,
et puis voilà.
And there you go.
Et puis,
And then,
je vais annoncer bientôt
I'll announce soon.
beaucoup,
a lot,
beaucoup de dates
many dates
de tournées
tours
à partir de septembre
from September
pour ce spectacle-là.
for that show.
Et on va annoncer aussi
And we'll announce too.
une vingtaine de dates
about 20 dates
prochainement
soon
avec les Princesse Leïa,
with Princess Leya,
le projet musical
the musical project
dans lequel je suis présent
in which I am present
en tant que chanteur,
as a singer,
chanteur,
singer,
compositeur
composer
et interprète.
and interpreter.
Super, interprète,
Great, interpreter,
crieur aussi.
You too.
Oui, tout à fait.
Yes, absolutely.
Eh bien voilà,
Well, that's it,
je pense qu'on a tout dit,
I think we said everything,
c'était un plaisir,
It was a pleasure,
on se revoit très bientôt,
I'll see you soon,
en tout cas plus bientôt
in any case more soon
que deux mois et demi.
Two and a half months.
Exactement.
Exactly.
Et avec un invité cette fois,
And with a guest this time,
je pense.
I think so.
On en a plein qui veulent faire.
We got a lot of people who want to do it.
Merci de soutenir le podcast,
Thanks for supporting the podcast,
merci de mettre des petites étoiles,
thank you for putting on small stars,
merci d'en parler à vos amis.
Thank you for telling your friends.
Vous savez bien
You know.
que c'est un podcast de niche,
that it is a niche podcast,
ça ne va pas se faire tout seul.
It's not gonna happen alone.
Vous en connaissez,
You know,
des vieux gars chelous
old cheesy guys
qui font,
who make,
qui aiment les films chelous.
Who like movies.
Oui, oui.
Yes, yes.
Ou tes vieilles meufs chelous,
Or your old bitches,
on prend aussi.
We'll take it, too.
On en a plein.
We got plenty.
Autour, il n'y a que ça.
Around here, it's all.
Magnifique.
Beautiful.
Allez, à très bientôt,
Come on, see you soon,
bisous à tous.
All kisses.
La bise.
The kiss.
Sous-titrage ST' 501
Subtitles ST' 501